New Way of the Spirit
Romans 7:4-6
4Likewise, my brothers, you also have died to the law through the body of Christ, so that you may belong to another, to him who has been raised from the dead, in order that we may bear fruit for God. 5For while we were living in the flesh, our sinful passions, aroused by the law, were at work in our members to bear fruit for death. 6But now we are released from the law, having died to that which held us captive, so that we serve in the new way of the Spirit and not in the old way of the written code. 

We have died to the law through the body of Christ and have been raised in Him through His life. In Romans 7:1 it says,
1Or do you not know, brothers-for I am speaking to those who know the law-that the law is binding on a person only as long as he lives? 
So having died to the law through the body of Christ, we are no longer under law, but under grace. In Romans 6:14 it says,
14For sin will have no dominion over you, since you are not under law but under grace.
There is a movie called Double Jeopardy, where a woman is framed for murder unjustly and went to jail. She cannot be tried again for the same crime. Likewise, we have died to the law and are free from it since we have died with Christ, who bore the penalty of our sins. Jesus took on the wrath of God for us bearing the penalty of our sins, making many righteous before God for those who have faith in Him. 
In Colossians 2:12-15 it says,
12having been buried with him in baptism, in which you were also raised with him through faith in the powerful working of God, who raised him from the dead. 13And you, who were dead in your trespasses and the uncircumcision of your flesh, God made alive together with him, having forgiven us all our trespasses, 14by canceling the record of debt that stood against us with its legal demands. This he set aside, nailing it to the cross. 15He disarmed the rulers and authorities and put them to open shame, by triumphing over them in him. 

We now belong to Him who has been raised from the dead, in order that we may bear fruit for God. In Galatians 5:13-15 it says,
13For you were called to freedom, brothers. Only do not use your freedom as an opportunity for the flesh, but through love serve one another. 14For the whole law is fulfilled in one word: “You shall love your neighbor as yourself.” 15But if you bite and devour one another, watch out that you are not consumed by one another.
And in Galatians 5:16-26 it says,
16But I say, walk by the Spirit, and you will not gratify the desires of the flesh. 17For the desires of the flesh are against the Spirit, and the desires of the Spirit are against the flesh, for these are opposed to each other, to keep you from doing the things you want to do. 18But if you are led by the Spirit, you are not under the law. 19Now the works of the flesh are evident: sexual immorality, impurity, sensuality, 20idolatry, sorcery, enmity, strife, jealousy, fits of anger, rivalries, dissensions, divisions, 21envy, drunkenness, orgies, and things like these. I warn you, as I warned you before, that those who do such things will not inherit the kingdom of God. 22But the fruit of the Spirit is love, joy, peace, patience, kindness, goodness, faithfulness, 23gentleness, self-control; against such things there is no law. 24And those who belong to Christ Jesus have crucified the flesh with its passions and desires.
	25If we live by the Spirit, let us also keep in step with the Spirit. 25Let us not become conceited, provoking one another, envying one another.
Let us keep in step in the Spirit, bearing much fruit in love, joy, peace, patience, kindness, goodness, faithfulness, gentleness, and self-control. Let us use our freedom to serve one another and love one another and not for the flesh which is against the Spirit who lives in you. Be holy temples and living sacrifices of the Lord. In Romans 12:1 it says,
1I appeal to you therefore, brothers, by the mercies of God, to present your bodies as a living sacrifice, holy and acceptable to God, which is your spiritual worship. 2Do not be conformed to this world, but be transformed by the renewal of your mind, that by testing you may discern what is the will of God, what is good and acceptable and perfect.
And in 1 Peter 1:15-16 it says,
15but as he who called you is holy, you also be holy in all your conduct, 16since it is written, “You shall be holy, for I am holy.”
In Romans 7:5-6 it says,
5For while we were living in the flesh, our sinful passions, aroused by the law, were at work in our members to bear fruit for death. 6But now we are released from the law, having died to that which held us captive, so that we serve in the new way of the Spirit and not in the old way of the written code.
While we were living in the flesh, in our sinful passions, we bore fruit for death. Every lie, every lustful thought, every curse word bore fruit for death. Let us not live in the flesh bearing fruit for death but let us have faith in Jesus Christ, being free from the law which held us captive, serving in the new way of the Spirit by walking in the Spirit bearing fruit of love, joy, peace, patience, kindness, goodness, faithfulness, gentleness, and self-control.
