Redeemed in Christ
Romans 8:1-11	
1There is therefore now no condemnation for those who are in Christ Jesus. 2For the law of the Spirit of life has set you free in Christ Jesus from the law of sin and death. 3For God has done what the law, weakened by the flesh, could not do. By sending his own Son in the likeness of sinful flesh and for sin, he condemned sin in the flesh, 4in order that the righteous requirement of the law might be fulfilled in us, who walk not according to the flesh but according to the Spirit. 5For those who live according to the flesh set their minds on the things of the flesh, but those who live according to the Spirit set their minds on the things of the Spirit. 6For to set the mind on the flesh is death, but to set the mind on the Spirit is life and peace. 7For the mind that is set on the flesh is hostile to God, for it does not submit to God’s law; indeed it cannot. 8Those who are in the flesh cannot please God.
	9You, however are not in the flesh but in the Spirit, if in fact the Spirit of God dwells in you. Anyone who does not have the Spirit of Christ does not belong to him. 10But if Christ is in you, although the body is dead because of sin, the Spirit is life because of righteousness. 11If the Spirit of him who raised Jesus from the dead dwells in you, he who raised Christ Jesus from the dead will also give life to your mortal bodies through his Spirit who dwells in you.

Romans 8:1 says, 
1There is therefore now no condemnation for those who are in Christ Jesus. 
We are redeemed by the blood of the lamb. Jesus took the penalty of our sin on the cross for those who have faith in Him and who saved us from hell. In John 3:16 Jesus says,
16“For God so loved the world, that he gave his only Son, that whoever believes in him should not perish but have eternal life.
We, once trapped in sin and unable to keep the law perfectly, are redeemed by what Christ has done for us. We have eternal life in Christ! Jesus paid the penalty for all our sins saving us from judgement, from condemnation, and from hell. This is why the Gospel is called “the Good News”. 
Romans 8:4 says, 
4in order that the righteous requirement of the law might be fulfilled in us, who walk not according to the flesh but according to the Spirit.
The works of the flesh and the fruit of the Spirit are outlined in Galatians 5:19-23:
19Now the works of the flesh are evident: sexual immorality, impurity, sensuality, 20idolatry, sorcery, enmity, strife, jealousy, fits of anger, rivalries, dissensions, divisions, 21envy, drunkenness, orgies, and things like these. I warn you, as I warned you before, that those who do such things will not inherit the kingdom of God. 22But the fruit of the Spirit is love, joy, peace, patience, kindness, goodness, faithfulness, 23gentleness, self-control; against such things there is no law.
Let us bear the fruit of the Spirit, trusting and leaning on the saving power of God to deny the flesh and walk in the Spirit. 
Having believed in the saving work of Jesus, we now walk in the Holy Spirit, and no longer in the flesh, being sanctified by grace. 
In 1 Thessalonians 4:3 it says,
3For this is the will of God, your sanctification: that you abstain from sexual immorality; 4that each one of you know how to control his own body in holiness and honor, 5not in the passion of lust like the Gentiles who do not know God; 6that no one transgress and wrong his brother in this matter, because the Lord is an avenger in all these things, as we told you beforehand and solemnly warned you. 7For God has not called us for impurity, but in holiness. 8Therefore whoever disregards this, disregards not man but God, who gives his Holy Spirit to you.
We are sanctified by grace having been sanctified by the body of Jesus Christ as it says in Hebrews 10:10:
10And by that will we have been sanctified through the offering of the body of Jesus Christ once for all.
Through Christ we are being made holy day after day through the power of the Holy Spirit. Have you looked back on your walk with God from a few years ago? It is the Holy Spirit working in you sanctifying you and making you holy. If you are stuck in sin, I urge to you pray to God, who hears you, for help. He will surely help you overcome. In Matthew 17:20 Jesus says,
20He said to them, “Because of your little faith. For truly, I say to you, if you have faith like a grain of mustard seed, you will say to this mountain, ‘Move from here to there,’ and it will move, and nothing will be impossible for you.”
Romans 8:9-10 says, 
9You, however are not in the flesh but in the Spirit, if in fact the Spirit of God dwells in you. Anyone who does not have the Spirit of Christ does not belong to him. 10But if Christ is in you, although the body is dead because of sin, the Spirit is life because of righteousness. 
Having been born again in Christ, we are no longer in the flesh but in the Spirit. In Galatians 2:20 it says,
20I have been crucified with Christ. It is no longer I who live, but Christ who lives in me. And the life I now live in the flesh I live by faith in the Son of God, who loved me and gave himself for me.
We live in God’s grace everyday giving thanks to Him who saved us from death and condemnation living our lives for Him in gratitude forever praising Him on earth and in heaven. We are alive in the Spirit having been buried with Christ through baptism and being raised in His life. In Colossians 2:11-12 it says,
11In him also you were circumcised with a circumcision made without hands, by putting off the body of the flesh, by the circumcision of Christ, 12having been buried with him in baptism, in which you were also raised with him through faith in the powerful working of God, who raised him from the dead.
The judgement pronounced on us is gone-Christ has paid our debt! Romans 8:1 says,
1There is therefore now no condemnation for those who are in Christ Jesus. 
 We are washed clean in the blood of the Lamb, accounted righteous before God for the Lord is our righteousness in whom we have faith. In Jeremiah 23:6 it says,
6In his days Judah will be saved, and Israel will dwell securely. And this is the name by which he will be called: ‘The LORD is our righteousness.’
And in Romans 1:17 it says,
17For in it the righteousness of God is revealed from faith for faith, as it is written, “The righteous shall live by faith.” 
We are being sanctified day by day in the power of the Holy Spirit whom we lean on and trust, becoming holy in Him. Trust in the Lord, pray and tell Him your struggles and believe He can save you from the flesh and help you walk in the Spirit. We are truly alive in Christ!

