Be on Good Soil
Matthew 13:18-23
The Parable of the Sower Explained
18 “Hear then the parable of the sower: 19When anyone hears the word of the kingdom and does not understand it, the evil one comes and snatches away what has been sown in his heart. This is what was sown along the path. 20As for what was sown on rocky ground, this is the one who hears the word and immediately receives it with joy, 21yet he has no root in himself, but endures for a while, and when tribulation or persecution arises on account of the word, immediately he falls away. 22 As for what was sown among thorns, this is the one who hears the word, but the cares of the world and the deceitfulness of riches choke the word, and it proves unfruitful. 23 As for what was sown on good soil, this is the one who hearts the word and understands it. He indeed bears fruit and yields, in one case a hundredfold, in another sixty, and in another thirty.”
 

	Seed sown on the path are those who hear but do not believe because the evil one takes it away. For those who don’t believe have you ever considered this? That life giving Good News, the Gospel, is snatched from your heart? For those who do not believe in Jesus, I encourage you to read the Gospel, (Matthew, Mark, Luke and John) and see the truth that is in Jesus Christ. Jesus is the only way to heaven and by his sacrifice on the cross for us, He paid for all our wrongdoings, all of our sins, that for those who believe in Jesus and what He did on the cross will be saved and have eternal life. He loved you and gave His life on the cross for you. All the other religions are about what we do to be accepted. But for Christians it is about being accepted and we do. All the other religions are about working our way to heaven, but for Christians it is about faith, not works. Romans 1:17 says,
17For in it the righteousness of God is revealed from faith for faith, as it is written, “The righteous shall live by faith.”
Let us not be as the seed on the path where the evil one snatch it away from us but hold on to God’s Word faithfully.
	Matthew 13 verse 20 says,
20As for what was sown on rocky ground, this is the one who hears the word and immediately receives it with joy, 21yet he has no root in himself, but endures for a while, and when tribulation or persecution arises on account of the word, immediately he falls away.
Seed sown on rocky ground doesn’t take root. So let us heed this warning from Jesus about rocky soil. When tribulation or persecutions come let us dig deep into the ground with our roots and hold fast to God’s word in our time of need and seek Him earnestly in prayer with all we have and patiently endure through the trial and suffering because All things work for good to those who love God who are called according to His purpose (Romans 8:28). If you read the book of Job, of how he went through immense suffering, losing his family, losing his health, losing his wealth, being accused by his friends, when he did nothing wrong, oh how he suffered, but how much more did his faith shine in the darkness. He said in Job 13:15:
15Though he slay me, I will hope in him; yet I will argue my ways to his face.
And in Job 1:21 he says,
21And he said, “Naked I came from my mother’s womb, and naked shall I return. The LORD gave, and the LORD has taken away; blessed be the name of the LORD.”
When we go through trials and suffering, it is a refining moment in our lives as metal is refined in the fire. God is working in us, holding us steady in the flame while not letting us get burned or consumed, perfectly holding us and molding us into the man or woman of God He wants us to become. In Isaiah 48:10-11 it says,
10 Behold, I have refined you, but not as silver;
    I have tried you in the furnace of affliction.
11 For my own sake, for my own sake, I do it,
    for how should my name be profaned?
    My glory I will not give to another.
In Romans 5:3-5 it says regarding suffering:
3Not only that, but we rejoice in our sufferings, knowing that suffering produces endurance, 4and endurance produces character, and character produces hope, 5and hope does not put us to shame, because God’s love has been poured into our hearts through the Holy Spirit who has been given to us.
 
Through our suffering we become tougher, people of character and full of hope in that we have God’s love poured into our hearts through the Holy Spirit. God pours His love into our own hearts when we suffer, giving us hope for a better day through the Holy Spirit. We are not alone in our walk in life; we have the Creator of the universe living in us helping us with our lives. Let us have faith and hope and love in what God is working in us even through the suffering, because if it is not good, God’s not done yet.
And in Psalm 103:13-14 it says,
13 As a father shows compassion to his children,
        	So the LORD shows compassion to those who fear him.
14 For he knows our frame;
        	he remembers that we are dust.
So let us not be like the seed sown on rocky ground which don’t have root during suffering but trust in God to make a way through the suffering we go through.
 
	Matthew 13 verse 22 says,
22 As for what was sown among thorns, this is the one who hears the word, but the cares of the world and the deceitfulness of riches choke the word, and it proves unfruitful.
 
Let us heed this warning of the thorns since we are living in the world where people focus on wealth and fame and things like these choke the word, making it unfruitful. Jesus taught us that one cannot have two masters, you cannot serve God and money (Matthew 6:24). Jesus also taught us to not be anxious about tomorrow, for tomorrow will worry for itself, sufficient for the day is its own trouble and that if God takes care of the birds, how much more will He take care of you. What we need is already considered and taken care of by God, our food, our clothes, our drink (Matthew 6:34). Hebrews 13:5 says,
5Keep your life free from love of money, and be content with what you have, for he has said, “I will never leave you nor forsake you.” So we can confidently say,
        	“The Lord is my helper;
                    	I will not fear;
        	what can man do to me?”
Also it says in Proverbs 23:4-5,
Do not toil to acquire wealth;
    be discerning enough to desist.
5 When your eyes light on it, it is gone,
    for suddenly it sprouts wings,
    flying like an eagle toward heaven.
Let us instead build treasure in heaven. Matthew 6:33 says,
33 But seek first the kingdom of God and his righteousness, and all these things will be added to you.
So let us not be among the thorns, being choked by the deceitfulness of wealth but live our lives for Christ bearing fruit for Jesus.
 
	Matthew 13:23 says,
23 As for what was sown on good soil, this is the one who hearts the word and understands it. He indeed bears fruit and yields, in one case a hundredfold, in another sixty, and in another thirty.”
Let us be on the good soil, hearing God’s Word and understanding it where the seed is deep into the ground where no one can snatch it and the seed bears strong roots and endures through suffering, and is free from any thorns that will try to hinder it from growing. Let us always hold on to the Word of God and stay steadfast in prayer trusting in God to make a way for us when it feels like there is no way. He made a way at the Red Sea for the Israelites, parting the waters, He can make a way for you as well. All we need is a mustard seed size of faith to move mountains. I encourage you to stay close to God’s Word daily, having a time of day set aside for God for quiet time and in prayer. Let us have a relationship with God spending time with Him everyday as our best friend and Maker. God loves you!!!

