Born Again
John 3:1-8
You Must Be Born Again
Now there was a man of the Pharisees named Nicodmeus, a ruler of the Jews. 2 This man came to Jesus by night and said to him, “Rabbi, we know that you are a teacher come from God, for no one can do these signs that you do unless God is with him.” 3 Jesus answered him, “Truly, truly, I say to you, unless one is born again he cannot see the kingdom of God.” 4 Nicodemus said to him, “How can a man be born when he is old? Can he enter a second time into his mother’s womb and be born?” 5 Jesus answered, “Truly, truly, I say to you, unless one is born of water and the Spirit, he cannot enter the kingdom of God. 6 That which is born of the flesh is flesh, and that which is born of the Spirit is spirit. 7 Do not marvel that I said to you, ‘You must be born again.’ 8 The wind blows where it wishes, and you hear its sound, but you do not know where it comes from or where it goes. So it is with everyone who is born of the Spirit.”

A caterpillar prepares itself for transformation by eating leaves. After it has eaten enough it goes through its cocoon phase and becomes totally transformed into a chrysalis. When it has finished, it emerges as a new creation, a butterfly. We as Christians go through transformation too, being born again by the Holy Spirit through faith in Jesus Christ.
 	Verse 5 says:
5 Jesus answered, “Truly, truly, I say to you, unless one is born of water and the Spirit, he cannot enter the kingdom of God. 6 That which is born of the flesh is flesh, and that which is born of the Spirit is spirit. 7 Do not marvel that I said to you, ‘You must be born again.’
To enter the kingdom of God, we must be made new again through faith in Jesus Christ. In 1 Peter 1:3-9 apostle Peter writes:
Born Again to a Living Hope
	3 Blessed be the God and Father of our Lord Jesus Christ! According to his great mercy, he has caused us to be born again to a living hope through the resurrection of Jesus Christ from the dead, 4 to an inheritance that is imperishable, undefiled, and unfading, kept in heaven or you, 5 who by God’s power are being guarded through faith for a salvation ready to be revealed in the last time. 6 In this you rejoice, though now for a little while, if necessary, you have been grieved by various trials, 7 so that the tested genuineness of your faith-more precious than gold that perishes though it is tested by fire-may be found to result in praise and glory and honor at the revelation of Jesus Christ. 8 Though you have not seen him, you love him. Though you do not now see him, you believe in him and rejoice with joy that is inexpressible and filled with glory, 9 obtaining the outcome of your faith, the salvation of your souls.
By faith in Jesus Christ, we are born again to a living hope in Jesus Christ. We have an inheritance waiting for us in heaven, the resurrection from the dead. Through the testing of our faith, we will go through various trials in this life, but we are not alone! Romans 5:3 says,
3Not only that, but we rejoice in our sufferings, knowing that suffering produces endurance, 4 and endurance produces character, and character produces hope, 5 and hope does not put us to shame, because God’s love has been poured into our hearts through the Holy Spirit who has been given to us.
When we go through trials, we are refined and have hope because God’s love has been poured into our hearts through the Holy Spirit who loves us and will be with us. Our faith is more precious than gold and “may be found to result in praise and glory and honor at the revelation of Jesus Christ”(1 Peter 1:7). 1 Peter 1:8 says, 
8 Though you have not seen him, you love him. Though you do not now see him, you believe in him and rejoice with joy that is inexpressible and filled with glory, 9 obtaining the outcome of your faith, the salvation of your souls.
Let us follow Christ and love him with all our heart, mind, soul and strength awaiting the day where we can be with Him in heaven for all eternity.
     Being born again through faith in Jesus Christ is what we need to enter the kingdom of God. 
2 Corinthians 5:17 says
17 Therefore, if anyone is in Christ, he is a new creation. The old has passed away; behold, the new has come. 18 All this is from God, who through Christ reconciled us to himself and gave us the ministry of reconciliation; 19 that is, in Christ God was reconciling the world to himself, not counting their trespasses against them, and entrusting to us the message of reconciliation. 20 Therefore, we are ambassadors for Christ, God making his appeal through us. We implore you on behalf of Christ, be reconciled to God. 21 For our sake he made him to be sin who knew no sin, so that in him we might become the righteousness of God.
Jesus reconciled you to Himself by taking our blame and our sin on the cross. God punished His one and only Son, that you may be spared from an eternity in hell. Jesus paid it all for you, reconciling you to himself, not counting our trespasses against us, forgiving us of all our sins that we may become the righteousness of God. In Romans 1:17 it says, “the righteous shall live by faith”. We are righteous not by our own merit, but because of what Christ has done for us, where His righteousness is imputed unto us.  In Jeremiah 23:6 it says, “The LORD is our righteousness”.
     We are a new creation in Christ having been transformed by the power of the Holy Spirit and appealing to God for a new conscious. 1 Peter 3:21 says,
21 Baptism, which corresponds to this, now saves you, not as a removal of dirt from the body but as an appeal to God for a good conscience, through the resurrection of Jesus Christ, 22 who has gone into heaven and is at the right hand of God, with angels, authorities, and powers having been subjected to him.
Baptism is our appeal to God for a new conscience in Christ, living our lives for His glory and honor and praise and by living by faith in Jesus Christ, sharing in His fellowship where He makes His home with you. In John 3:5 it says, 
5 Jesus answered, “Truly, truly, I say to you, unless one is born of water and the Spirit, he cannot enter the kingdom of God.
Let us endeavor to be baptized if you haven’t been already, making an appeal to God for His Holy Spirit to make us into a new creation in Christ, being born again by water and the Spirit.
     The gospel is where Jesus Christ came into the world through his advent, suffered on the cross and descended into hell, rose again and ascended into heaven on the third day at the right hand of God the Father Almighty who will judge the living and the dead. By believing in the gospel, and acknowledging that Jesus Christ is Lord and trusting in God to transform you, you will be saved having an imperishable inheritance prepared for you in heaven. Let us place our trust in Jesus in whatever may come in this life, knowing that the testing of your faith “may be found to result in praise and glory and honor at the revelation of Jesus Christ” (1 Peter 1:7). Let us be born again by water and Spirit, so that we may be able to enter the kingdom of God. If you haven’t already been baptized, then try to get baptized to appeal to God for transformation and a new life in Jesus Christ. Jesus loves you!!!

