Counting the Cost
Luke 14:25-30
The Cost of Discipleship
	25 Now great crowds accompanied him, and he turned and said to them, 26 “If anyone comes to me and does not hate his own father and mother and wife and children and brothers and sisters, yes, and even his own life, he cannot be my disciple. 27Whoever does not bear his own cross and come after me cannot be my disciple. 28For which of you, desiring to build a tower, does not first sit down and count the cost, whether he has enough to complete it? 29Otherwise, when he has laid a foundation and is not able to finish, all who see it begin to mock him, 30 saying, ‘This man began to build and was not able to finish.’ 

When building a building, one must consider the architecture of the building, it’s designs, its materials and costs. Can one build without counting the cost? Let us make sure we know how much the cost will be for the building otherwise we will be ridiculed. Likewise, let us count the cost for following Christ. 
Verse 27 says 
27Whoever does not bear his own cross and come after me cannot be my disciple.
When bearing our crosses, we will go through times of difficulties and trials. But let us follow in our Maker’s footsteps, walking the road of the cross, enduring through what may come. Have you dedicated your life to Jesus? Is Jesus your everything? Let us count the cost of following Christ, because Jesus is our everything and He gave it all for you on the cross, so let us likewise give all we have for Christ. In the Westminster Shorter Catechism the first catechism asks what is man’s chief end? The answer is “Man’s chief end is to glorify God and to enjoy Him forever”. So our purpose in life is to give glory to God and enjoy Him forever. But even while taking our crosses, we are not put to shame. 2 Corinthians 4:7-12 says,
7But we have this treasure in jars of clay, to show that the surpassing power belongs to God and not to us. 8We are afflicted in every way, but not crushed; perplexed, but not driven to despair; 9persecuted, but not forsaken; struck down, but not destroyed 10always carrying in the body the death of Jesus, so that the life of Jesus may also be manifested in our bodies. 11For we who live are always being given over to death for Jesus’ sake, so that the life of Jesus also may be manifested in our mortal flesh. 12So death is at work in us, but life in you.
And in verse 16-18:
16So we do not lose heart. Though our outer self is wasting away, our inner self is being renewed day by day. 17For this light momentary affliction is preparing for us an eternal weight of glory beyond all comparison, 18as we look not to the things that are seen but to the things that are unseen. For the things that are seen are transient, but the things that are unseen are eternal.

Bearing our crosses, prepares us for an eternal weight of glory beyond all comparison. Let us look to the things unseen rather than the things that are seen. 
Bearing our crosses also means to walk by faith in the Son of God. In Galatians 2:20 it says,
20I have been crucified with Christ. It is no longer I who live, but Christ who lives in me. And the life I now live in the flesh I live by faith in the Son of God, who loved me and gave himself for me.
For Christians, we have been positionally crucified with Christ and having died we are made new in the image of Christ, appealing to God for a new conscious through baptism. 1 Peter 3:21 says,
21Baptism, which corresponds to this, now saves you, not as a removal of dirt from the body but as an appeal to God for a good conscience, through the resurrection of Jesus Christ, 22 who has gone into heaven and is at the right hand of God, with angels, authorities, and powers having been subjected to him. 
We now walk by faith in the Son of God who loved us and died for us. By walking by faith we are to become living sacrifices. Romans 12:1-2 says,
1I appeal to you therefore, brothers, by the mercies of God, to present your bodies as a living sacrifice, holy and acceptable to God, which is your spiritual worship. 2Do not be conformed to this world, but be transformed by the renewal of your mind, that by testing you may discern what is the will of God, what is good and acceptable and perfect.
So let us walk by faith as living sacrifices presenting our bodies as holy and acceptable to God. Let us also walk in the Spirit to help you against the desires of the flesh because we cannot do this on our own effort; it is by the power of God that we can overcome our flesh through faith. So let us have faith and trust in Jesus to help us overcome. Galatians 5:16-24 says,
16But I say, walk by the Spirit, and you will not gratify the desires of the flesh. 17For the desires of the flesh are against the Spirit, and the desires of the Spirit are against the flesh, for these are opposed to each other, to keep you from doing the things you want to do. 18But if you are led by the Spirit, you are not under the law. 19Now the works of the flesh are evident: sexual immorality, impurity, sensuality, 20idolatry, sorcery, enmity, strife, jealousy, fits of anger, rivalries, dissensions, divisions, 21envy, drunkenness, orgies and things like these. I warn you, as I warned you before, that those who do such things will not inherit the kingdom of God. 22But the fruit of the Spirit is love, joy, peace, patience, kindness, goodness, faithfulness, 23gentleness, self-control; against such things there is no law. 24 And those who belong to Christ Jesus have crucified the flesh with its passions and desires.
	25If we live by the Spirit, let us also keep in step with the Spirit. 26Let us not become conceited, provoking one another, envying one another.

Let us strive to walk in the Spirit so that we may not gratify the desires of the flesh. How do we do this? Through prayer and devotion. The Maker of the universe lives inside you in your heart, let us always remember that He is watching over you and wants you to trust in Him to not walk in the way of sin, which leads to death, but walk in the Spirit which leads to life. 
	Let us bear our crosses, counting the cost of following Jesus. Jesus gave everything to you, and so let us give everything to Him for the eternal weight of glory beyond all comparison. He loved you to the point of death on a cross and endured the pains of hell for you and ascended to the right hand of God the Father Almighty who will judge the living and the dead. Let us give our lives to Him, living by faith in the Son of God, crucifying our flesh with its passions and desires and walking in the Spirit as living sacrifices for His glory and honor and praise. Jesus loves you!!!
