Counted as Righteousness
Romans 4:18-25
18In hope he believed against hope, that he should become the father of many nations, as he had been told, “So shall your offspring be.” 19He did not weaken in faith when he considered his own body, which was as good as dead (since he was about a hundred years old), or when he considered the barrenness of Sarah’s womb. 20No unbelief made him waver concerning the promise of God, but he grew strong in his faith as he gave glory to God, 21fully convinced that God was able to do what he had promised. 22That is why his faith was “counted to him as righteousness.” 23But the words “it was counted to him” were not written for his sake alone, 24but for ours also. It will be counted to us who believe in him who raised from the dead Jesus our Lord, 25who was delivered up for our trespasses and raised for our justification.

Abraham and his wife Sarah were unable to have children however God promised them in Genesis 12:2:
2And I will make of you a great nation, and I will bless you and make your name great, so that you will be a blessing. 3I will bless those who bless you, and him who dishonors you I will curse, and in you all the families of the earth shall be blessed.”
And in Genesis 15:5:
5And he brought him outside and said, “Look toward heaven, and number the stars, if you are able to number them.” Then he said to him, “So shall your offspring be.” 6And he believed the LORD, and he counted it to him as righteousness. 
God provided a son for Abraham, Issac, and we see today God’s people are beyond the number of the stars. God is always faithful and always keeps His promises. 
In Romans 4:23-25 Apostle Paul writes:
23But the words “it was counted to him” were not written for his sake alone, 24but for ours also. It will be counted to us who believe in him who raised from the dead Jesus our Lord, 25who was delivered up for our trespasses and raised for our justification. 
If we believe in Jesus Christ and His resurrection who died for us to justify us, it will be counted as righteousness. This is faith, believing in the saving work of Jesus Christ and just as Abraham believed that he would have heirs as numerable as the stars in the sky, it is counted to us as righteousness. Apostle Paul writes in Romans 1:17,
17For in it the righteousness of God is revealed from faith for faith, as it is written, “The righteous shall live by faith.” 
If we have faith, then we have been imputed with the righteousness of God, Jesus Christ, as it was said in Romans 4:24:
24but for ours also. It will be counted to us who believe in him who raised from the dead Jesus our Lord, 25who was delivered up for our trespasses and raised for our justification.
In Ephesians 6:13-18 it says,
13Therefore take up the whole armor of God, that you may be able to withstand in the evil day, and having done all, to stand firm. 14Stand therefore, having fastened on the belt of truth, and having put on the breastplate of righteousness, 15 and, as shoes for your feet, having put on the readiness given by the gospel of peace. 16In all circumstances take up the shield of faith, with which you can extinguish all the flaming darts of the evil one; 17and take the helmet of salvation, and the sword of the Spirit, which is the word of God, 18praying at all times in the Spirit, with all prayer and supplication. To that end, keep alert with all perseverance, making supplication for all the saints,
The breastplate of righteousness we wear is Christ. If you were to fight in a medieval war, would you wear a leather breastplate (your works and righteousness) or wear a steel breastplate, impenetrable and of the strongest material (Christ)? In Jeremiah 23:6 it says,
6In his days Judah will be saved, and Israel will dwell securely. And this is the name by which he will be called: ‘The LORD is our righteousness.’
So we see by just having faith one is counted righteous, that God himself becomes our righteousness and our justifier. All of our righteous deeds are not enough to make ourselves right with God. In Luke 16:26 it says,
And besides all this, between us and you a great chasm has been fixed, in order that those who would pass from here to you may not be able, and none may cross from there to us.’
Only through Jesus Christ, who is our righteousness, can we cross that chasm and be with God in heaven. In Ephesians 2:8 it says,
For by grace you have been saved through faith. And this is not your own doing; it is the gift of God, 9not a result of works, so that no one may boast. 10For we are his workmanship, created in Christ Jesus for good works, which God prepared beforehand, that we should walk in them.
God loves you and is your righteousness!
