Crucified With Christ
Galatians 2:15-21
Justified by Faith
15We ourselves are Jews by birth and not Gentile sinners; 16yet we know that a person is not justified by works of the law but through faith in Jesus Christ, so we also have believed in Christ Jesus, in order to be justified by faith in Christ and not by works of the law, because by works of the law no one will be justified.
        	17But if, in our endeavor to be justified in Christ, we too were found to be sinners, is Christ then a servant of sin? Certainly not! 18For if I rebuild what I tore down, I prove myself to be a transgressor. 19For through the law I died to the law, so that I might live to God. 20I have been crucified with Christ. It is no longer I who live, but Christ who lives in me. And the life I now live in the flesh I live by faith in the Son of God, who loved me and gave himself for me. 21I do not nullify the grace of God, for if righteousness were through the law, then Christ died for no purpose.

FCF: sinners justified by faith and not by works

	Christ died to save the world from their sins. Because of Adam’s first sin, we sinned in him and fell with him when he ate of the fruit of the tree of the knowledge of good and evil. But just as death reigned from one man, Adam, so now the grace of God and the free gift from one man, Jesus Christ abound for the many. We have all sinned and fallen short of the glory of God and were under the wrath of God because of our sins. It is impossible for one to atone for his or her sins by works since no one was able to perfectly keep the Law except Jesus. But Christ came to the earth to save us from our sins, perfectly keeping the Law and fulfilling the Prophets to take your place on the cross and bear the penalty of your sin. He took on the wrath of God for us and loved us. In John 15:13 Jesus says,

13Greater love has no one than this, that someone lay down his life for his friends.

Jesus calls you and I friends. He died for you so that you wouldn’t have to go to hell. He rescued you and me by the blood poured out for the remission of sins. It is by faith that we are justified and not by our works. Faith is believing in what Christ has done for us and acknowledging that Jesus Christ is Lord and Savior of your life. The Pharisees stumbled on the stumbling block of works. In Romans 9:31-33 it says
31but that Israel who pursued a law that would lead to righteousness did not succeed in reaching that law. 32Why? Because they did not pursue it by faith, but as it were based on works. They have stumbled over the stumbling stone, 33as it is written,
        	“Behold, I am laying in Zion a stone of stumbling, and a rock of offense;
                    	and whoever believes in him will not be put to shame.”
So we see that we are not justified by our works, but by having faith in the saving work of Jesus Christ. In Galatians 2:21 it says,
21I do not nullify the grace of God, for if righteousness were through the law, then Christ died for no purpose.
If righteousness was by the law, by perfectly obeying every single commandment, we would be so filthy in our sins and dead in our sins. But Christ covered us with His blood, making all our sins white as snow. In Romans 11:6 it says,

6But if it is by grace, it is no longer on the basis of works; otherwise grace would no longer be grace.

It is all God and not us, that is what we are believing in. That God saved us through His one and only Son, and all glory and honor and praise is due unto Him for what He has done for us. To say that we can contribute to our salvation through works is not putting proper acknowledgement of what Christ has done for us. In Jeremiah 23:6 it says,

6In his days Judah will be saved, and Israel will dwell securely. And this is the name by which he will be called: ‘The LORD is our righteousness.’

Not our righteousness, but Christ's.
Being justified by works is a yoke of slavery, because we could never atone for our sins. Martin Luther experienced this when he climbed the stairs of Scala Sancta on his knees to atone for his sins. He realized it could never be enough. He said the following quote:
	At last, by the mercy of God, meditating day and night, I gave heed to the context of the words, namely, “In it the righteousness of God is revealed, as it is written, ‘He who through faith is righteous shall live.’” . . . And this is the meaning: the righteousness of God is revealed by the gospel, namely, the passive righteousness with which [the] merciful God justifies us by faith, as it is written, “He who through faith is righteous shall live.”
“Here I felt that I was altogether born again and had entered paradise itself through open gates.”
                    	(John Piper 2017).

In John 8:36 Jesus says,

36So if the Son sets you free, you will be free indeed.

We are free in Christ! No longer under a yoke of slavery of works, our sins all covered by the lamb of God, and as it says in 2 Corinthians 3:17:

17Now the Lord is the Spirit, and where the Spirit of the Lord is, there is freedom.

Let us always remember that we are saved by grace through faith and not by works lest we should boast.
        	Galatians 2:20 says,

20I have been crucified with Christ. It is no longer I who live, but Christ who lives in me. And the life I now live in the flesh I live by faith in the Son of God, who loved me and gave himself for me.

We who are redeemed have been crucified with Christ. Christ lives in us and we live our lives in the flesh by faith in the Son of God. Our lives are transformed to be images of Christ, living our lives for him while in the flesh, though we war against our flesh daily. Jesus loved us and gave himself for us, so that we can live in Him and walk with Him and find our identity in Him and our purpose in Him, to glorify and enjoy Him forever. He is our God and I pray we all commit our lives to Him and trust in Him as our Lord and Savior. Let us walk in the Spirit and not of the flesh, living by faith and not by sight, trusting in Him to always be there for us and that He calls us His own. Let us have a relationship with the living and true God!
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
John Piper. 2017. “Here He Stood: Martin Luther (1483–1546).” Desiring God. October 31, 2017. https://www.desiringgod.org/articles/here-he-stood.

