Do Not Worry
Matthew 6:25-34
Do Not Be Anxious
25 “Therefore I tell you, do not be anxious about your life, what you will eat or what you will drink, nor about your body, what you will put on. Is not life more than food, and the body more than clothing? 26Look at the birds of the air: they neither sow nor reap nor gather into barns, and yet your heavenly Father feeds them. Are you not of more value than they? 27And which of you by being anxious can add a single hour to his span of life? 28And why are you anxious about clothing? Consider the lilies of the field, how they grow: they neither toil nor spin, 29yet I tell you, even Solomon in all his glory was not arrayed like one of these. 30But if God so clothes the grass of the field, which today is alive and tomorrow is thrown into the oven, will he not much more clothe you, O you of little faith? 31Therefore do not be anxious, saying, ‘What shall we eat?’ or ‘What shall we drink?’ or ‘What shall we wear?’ 32For the Gentiles seek after all these things, and your heavenly Father knows that you need them all. 33But seek first the kingdom of God and his righteousness, and all these things will be added to you.
	34 “Therefore do not be anxious about tomorrow, for tomorrow will be anxious for itself. Sufficient for the day is its own trouble. 

Eric Liddel in Chariots of Fire was a flying Scotsman who refused to run the Olympic heat on Sunday because of his faith in Jesus Christ. However, when a new race came on a weekday, 400m dash, a race he did not train for since he originally trained for 100m dash, he won the gold medal! God can make a way just like He did for the Israelites at the Red Sea, parting the waters. So let us learn to trust in God and honor Him first, seeking His kingdom first and knowing that all these things will be added unto you. 
Jesus taught us to consider the birds of the air, they neither sow nor reap nor gather into barns yet our heavenly Father feeds them. How much more will God take care of us since we are worth more than sparrows? We see so many birds outside and God takes care of each of them. God is faithful to take care of each of us too. Let us trust in God and not worry about our future. Let us have faith and believe that God will take care of us when troubles arise. In John 14:27 Jesus says,
27Peace I leave with you; my peace I give to you. Not as the world gives do I give to you. Let not your hearts be troubled, neither let them be afraid.
	Worrying about what we are to eat, drink, and wear is something we don’t have to do. Our heavenly Father knows what we need and helps us to have what we need. In verse 33 Jesus says,
33But seek first the kingdom of God and his righteousness, and all these things will be added to you.
Let us put Christ and His kingdom first, knowing that God will provide for our needs. In the Westminster Shorter Catechism it says: “What is the chief end of man?” In other words, what is our purpose in life? The answer is “Man’s chief end is to glorify God and enjoy Him forever.” So let us change our attitudes in life to not focus on our wants and desires, but on what God wants for us. How do we know what God wants for us? Well we have God’s Word with us-let us spend time in the Scriptures of the Old and New Testament to see what God wants of us. In the morning, take time to read a few chapters of the Gospel. In the evening, do likewise. Let us feed our souls with God’s Word, learning more about Jesus and walking with Him. Let us put Christ first and not worry. Jesus got your back! No need to worry, though troubles will certainly come, but we will make it through alright. In Matthew 10:29-33 Jesus says,
29Are not two sparrows sold for a penny? And not one of them will fall to the ground apart from your Father. 30But even the hairs of your head are all numbered. 31Fear not, therefore; you are of more value than many sparrows. 32So everyone who acknowledges me before men, I also will acknowledge before my Father who is in heaven, 33but whoever denies me before men, I also will deny before my Father who is in heaven.
So we are firm in the Father’s hand. Let us not worry, nor be afraid of the future because Jesus holds the future in His hands. He holds each and every one of us in His hands and wrote all our days in His book (Psalm 139).
Psalm 139:14-18
14 I praise you, for I am fearfully and wonderfully made.
Wonderful are your works; my soul knows it very well.
15 My frame was not hidden from you, when I was being made in secret, 
	Intricately woven in the depths of the earth.
16Your eyes saw my unformed substance; in your book were written, every one of them, 
	the days that were formed for me, when as yet there was none of them.
17 How precious to me are your thoughts, O God!
	How vast is the sum of them!
18 If I would count them, they are more than the sand.
	I awake, and I am still with you.

Jesus wrote all our days before we were even born. Let us trust in our Author knowing He values us more than many sparrows and let us seek first the kingdom of God and His righteousness knowing God will provide for us. Jesus paid it all for you, securing your salvation on the cross, paying for all your sins and calling us righteous before Him. Ephesians 2:8-10 says, 
8 For by grace you have been saved through faith. And this is not your own doing; it is the gift of God, 9 not a result of works, so that no one may boast. 10 For we are his workmanship, created in Christ Jesus for good works, which God prepared beforehand, that we should walk in them.
Let us trust in Jesus and not worry because Jesus can make a way, splitting the Red Sea and stilling storms-He can make a way. Jesus loves you!!!

