Eternal Life With Christ
John 11:25
25 Jesus said to her, “I am the resurrection and the life. Whoever believes in me, though he die, yet shall he live, 26and everyone who lives and believes in me shall never die. Do you believe this?” 27 She said to him, “Yes, Lord; I believe that you are the Christ, the Son of God, who is coming into the world.”

We who believe in Christ have an eternal inheritance waiting for us in heaven. After going through the trials of this life, where our faith is tested and refined through suffering, we enter into the praise and glory of God at the revelation of Jesus Christ. 1 Peter 1:3-9 says
3Blessed be the God and Father of our Lord Jesus Christ! According to his great mercy, he has caused us to be born again to a living hope through the resurrection of Jesus Christ from the dead, 4 to an inheritance that is imperishable, undefiled, and unfading, kept in heaven for you, 5 who by God’s power are being guarded for faith for a salvation ready to be revealed in the last time. 6 In this you rejoice, though now for a little while, if necessary, you have been grieved by various trials, 7 so that the tested genuineness of your faith-more precious than gold that perishes though it is tested by fire-may be found to result in praise and glory and honor at the revelation of Jesus Christ. 8 Though you have not seen him, you love him. Though you do not now see him, you believe in him and rejoice with joy that is inexpressible and filled with glory, 9 obtaining the outcome of your faith, the salvation of your souls.
Even though we may die, and our earthly bodies may go through decay, we have an eternal body prepared for us in heaven without any pain, nor sickness; a place without suffering where we can rest.
Psalm 116:15 says 
Precious in the sight of the LORD is the death of his saints.
God loves us and cares for us. We are precious in God’s sight, and He loves us, giving us eternal life in Him through faith in His Son Jesus Christ for what He has done for us on the cross, secured our salvation and that we will live eternally with Him in heaven forever. Ephesians 2:8-9 says 
8For by grace you have been saved through faith. And this is not your own doing; it is the gift of God, 9 not a result of works, so that no one may boast. 
The saving work of Jesus secured our salvation by taking our sins and placing them on Jesus on the cross, that all our iniquities are atoned for and paid in full by the blood of the Lamb, and they have all been forgiven. By His wounds you are healed (1 Peter 2:24). His cross, his pain, saved our souls from eternal wrath in hell, and heals us of our sin condition. 1 Peter 2:24 says,
24 He himself bore our sins in his body on the tree, that we might die to sin and live to righteousness. By his wounds you have been healed.
By believing in Jesus Christ and what He has done for us, we can have eternal life. John 11:25 says,
25 Jesus said to her, “I am the resurrection and the life. Whoever believes in me, though he die, yet shall he live, 26and everyone who lives and believes in me shall never die. Do you believe this?”
Even though we may die, yet shall we live because of what Jesus has done for us, that by grace through faith we can be saved and have eternal life with Christ. We will live eternally forever with Christ in heaven where there is no pain, no suffering, no hurt, no sorrow, no sickness, no hunger, no thirst, no sin and no evil. With Christ we will be in paradise, as He told the thief on the cross with him that, “Truly I say to you, today you will be with me in paradise.” (Luke 23:43). Jesus himself is our life, and gives life to our bodies and is the resurrection. John 14:6 says,
6 Jesus said to him, “I am the way, and the truth, and the life. No one comes to the Father except through me.
John 3:16 says,
For God so loved the world, that he gave his only Son, that whoever believes in him should not perish but have eternal life.
God sent His only Son to die for us, that we may not perish but have eternal life. Our lives on earth is only a short time compared to the eternity we have in heaven. Imagine 80 years compared to 10 billion years! Can you imagine how short our lives are on this earth? Yet we have over 10 billion years to live and reign with Christ! Jesus gave us the hope of resurrection where He himself is the resurrection and life and brings us back to life from the grave on the last day. This time we have on earth is short, we are like grass that fades, here for a short time, then no longer on earth, but alive in heaven for eternity-more than a 100 billion years we will live with Christ. Let us follow Jesus by reading His Word and place our trust in him, because our lives on this earth is so short compared to what is waiting for us in heaven. Jesus loves you!!!

