Everyone Who Calls on the Name of the Lord Will Be Saved
 
Romans 10:4-13
 
4For Christ is the end of the law for righteousness to everyone who believes.
5For Moses writes about the righteousness that is based on the law, that the person who does the commandments shall live by them. 6But the righteousness based on faith says, “Do not say in your heart, ‘Who will ascend into heaven?’” (that is, to bring Christ down) 7“or ‘Who will descend into the abyss?’” (that is, to bring Christ up from the dead). 8But what does it say? “The word is near you, in your mouth and in your heart” (that is, the word of faith that we proclaim); 9because, if you confess with your mouth that Jesus is Lord and believe in your heart that God raised him from the dead, you will be saved. 10For with the heart one believes and is justified, and with the mouth one confesses and is saved. 11For the Scripture says, “Everyone who believes in him will not be put to shame.” 12For there is no distinction between Jew and Greek; for the same Lord is Lord of all, bestowing his riches on all who call on him. 13For “everyone who calls on the name of the Lord will be saved.”
 
 
Jesus fulfilled the Law and the Prophets. In Matthew 5:17-18 Jesus says,
 
17“Do not think that I have come to abolish the Law or the Prophets; I have not come to abolish them but to fulfill them. 18For truly, I say to you, until heaven and earth pass away, not an iota, not a dot, will pass from the Law until all is accomplished.
 
In the Old Testament, a sacrifice was done to take the place for the punishment of sins. A lamb or a goat would be sacrificed to symbolize what Christ would do for us being the spotless lamb of God. Jesus fulfilled the Law and the Prophets perfectly being the spotless sacrificial lamb taking the sins of the world upon Him. He was the sacrificial lamb that was slain to atone for our sins. Romans 10:4 says,
 
For Christ is the end of the law for righteousness to everyone who believes.
 
Romans 6:12 also says,
 
12 Let not sin therefore reign in your mortal body, to make you obey its passions. 13Do not present your members to sin as instruments for unrighteousness, but present yourselves to God as those who have been brought from death to life, and your members to God as instruments for righteousness. 14For sin will have no dominion over you, since you are not under law but under grace.
 
And Ephesians 2:8-9 says,
 
8For by grace you have been saved through faith. And this is not your own doing; it is the gift of God, 9not a result of works, so that no one may boast.
 
All we have to do is believe in Jesus saving us through the cross, taking our place for the punishment of our sins. We by having faith in Jesus are no longer under the law, but under grace. The law, although being our guardian, no longer condemns us to death because of our sins. Jesus took the condemnation for us, by dying on the cross for us. Romans 7:7-12 says,
 
7What then shall we say? That the law is sin? By no means! Yet if it had not been for the law, I would not have known sin. For I would not have known what it is to covet if the law had not said, “You shall not covet.” 8But sin, seizing an opportunity through the commandment, produced in me all kinds of covetousness. For apart from the law, sin lies dead. 9I was once alive apart from the law, but when the commandment came, sin came alive and I died. 10The very commandment that promised life proved to be death to me. 11For sin, seizing an opportunity through the commandment, deceived me and through it killed me. 12So the law is holy, and the commandment is holy and righteous and good.
 
 
	All we just need to believe and have faith.
 
Romans 1:17 says,
 
17For in it the righteousness of God is revealed from faith for faith, as it is written, “The righteous shall live by faith.”
 
Christians are accounted righteous before God not because of our good works, but because of our faith in Jesus Christ.
 
So what is faith? Hebrews 11:1 says,
 
1Now faith is the assurance of things hoped for, the conviction of things not seen.
 
Romans 10:9 says,
 
9because, if you confess with your mouth that Jesus is Lord and believe in your heart that God raised him from the dead, you will be saved.
 
This is all we have to do to be saved. We don’t have to give a ton of money to the church, we don’t have to rely on our good works to be saved. We are accounted righteous before God by having faith and believing that Jesus Christ is Lord and that God raised him from the dead. This free gift of grace to give us eternal life and a crown of righteousness, to be called sons and daughters of God, was given by God to reconcile us to Himself-all we need to do is just believe.
 
13For “everyone who calls on the name of the Lord will be saved.”
 
Jesus saved you by taking your place for the punishment of your sins by dying on the cross and suffering hell and rising again on the third day to the right hand of God the Father Almighty who will come to judge the quick and the dead. Without believing in what God has done for you, you will have to endure the punishment for your sins of which you can never atone.
Romans 6:23 says,
 
For the wages of sin is death, but the free gift of God is eternal life in Christ Jesus our Lord.
 
Jesus, being perfectly God and righteous, took on the wrath of God for you-He already paid for you. 1 Corinthians 6:20 says,
 
20for you were bought with a price. So glorify God in your body.
 
All you have to do is believe that He saved you. Isn’t it a beautiful gift? The only thing we have to do is believe. That is faith. Jesus loves you so much that He died for you. I encourage you, believe in the gospel and be saved!
 
16“For God so loved the world, that he gave his only Son, that whoever believes in him should not perish but eternal life.
John 3:16.

