Matthew 8:5-13
The Faith of a Centurion
5 When he had entered Capernaum, a centurion came forward to him, appealing to him, 6 “Lord, my servant is lying paralyzed at home, suffering terribly.” 7 And he said to him, “I will come and heal him.” 8 But the centurion replied, “Lord, I am not worthy to have you come under my roof, but only say the word, and my servant will be healed. 9 For I too am a man under authority, with soldiers under me. And I say to one, ‘Go,’ and he goes, and to another, ‘Come,’ and he comes, and to my servant,[c] ‘Do this,’ and he does it.” 10 When Jesus heard this, he marveled and said to those who followed him, “Truly, I tell you, with no one in Israel[d] have I found such faith. 11 I tell you, many will come from east and west and recline at table with Abraham, Isaac, and Jacob in the kingdom of heaven, 12 while the sons of the kingdom will be thrown into the outer darkness. In that place there will be weeping and gnashing of teeth.” 13 And to the centurion Jesus said, “Go; let it be done for you as you have believed.” And the servant was healed at that very moment.

    In Hebrews 11:1 it says, “Now faith is confidence in what we hope for and assurance about what we do not see.” Imagine a 3-legged chair with one of its legs missing. Faith is like sitting on that chair and believing that you won’t fall. What do you have faith about? We have faith that the sun won’t go out, that our cars will run well, that there will be plenty in the land. These are the things we have confidence in, and so let us have faith and confidence in Christ.
Faith that is small as a mustard seed can do great things. In Luke 17:5-10 it says, 
“5 The apostles said to the Lord, “Increase our faith!” 6 And the Lord said, “If you had faith like a grain of mustard seed, you could say to this mulberry tree, ‘Be uprooted and planted in the sea,’ and it would obey you.”
All God needs is a little bit of faith to accomplish great things. He is the Sower and Gardener of our faith and can make it grow into a large tree. In Mark 9:23-26 it says, 
23 Jesus said to him, “If[a] you can believe, all things are possible to him who believes.” 24 Immediately the father of the child cried out and said with tears, “Lord, I believe; help my unbelief!” 25 When Jesus saw that the people came running together, He rebuked the unclean spirit, saying to it, “Deaf and dumb spirit, I command you, come out of him and enter him no more! 26 Then the spirit cried out, convulsed him greatly, and came out of him. And he became as one dead, so that many said, “He is dead.” 27 But Jesus took him by the hand and lifted him up, and he arose.”
When we have walls that block us from believing, it is important to ask God to help us believe like this man did. He asked God to help his unbelief and God answered his plea. “He who did not spare his own Son, but gave him up for us all—how will he not also, along with him, graciously give us all things?” Romans 8:32. We see here that God is willing to graciously give us all things. To ask God to help with unbelief is so powerful because we are asking God to take us into deeper waters, to walk with Jesus on the water and trust in Him. 

    Faith to believe can move mountains. In Mark 11:20-22 it says, 
22 And Jesus answered them, “Have faith in God. 
23 Truly, I say to you, whoever says to this mountain, ‘Be taken up and thrown into the sea,’ and does not doubt in his heart, but believes that what he says will come to pass, it will be done for him. 24 Therefore I tell you, whatever you ask in prayer, believe that you have received[a] it, and it will be yours.

The centurion had great faith like this and acknowledged Jesus as a man of authority. The centurion believed that at Jesus’ word, his servant could be healed and believed that Jesus didn’t have to come to his home for this to happen. The mountain that the centurion faced was his servant being paralyzed. What are your mountains? Is it finding a new job, finding a relationship, or applying for school? Try praying and believe in Jesus because if it is in the Lord’s will, He will make a way and nothing can stop it from happening. Let us have faith in Jesus knowing that He can make a way, that He stilled the storm, parted the waters, walked on the sea, healed the sick, cast out demons, is with us in our daily lives, and loves us so much that He lives in us and is our Father, Saviour, and Wonderful Counselor, and Friend. Even when its not good, God isn’t done yet and can make a way through the trial. Romans 8:28 says:
    And we know that for those who love God all things work together for good, for those who are called according to his purpose.

And in Romans 8:35-39 says,
35 Who shall separate us from the love of Christ? Shall tribulation, or distress, or persecution, or famine, or nakedness, or danger, or sword? 36As it is written,
	“For your sake we are being killed all the day long;
		we are regarded as sheep to be slaughtered.”
37No, in all these things we are more than conquerors through him who loved us. 38 For I am sure that neither death nor life, nor angels nor rulers, nor things present nor things to come, nor powers, 39 nor height nor depth, nor anything else in all creation, will be able to separate us from the love of God in Christ Jesus our Lord.

Jesus loves us no matter what we go through and makes us more than conquerors through His love. Nothing can separate us from the love of Christ. Even when suffering is bad, Jesus doesn’t despise the affliction of the afflicted. Psalm 51:16-17 says,
16 For you will not delight in sacrifice, or I would give it; 
	you will not be pleased with a burnt offering.
17The sacrifices of God are a broken spirit;
	a broken and contrite heart, O God, you will not despise.

When we go through tough times, Jesus loves you. He is there with you, and watches over you. Our brokenness is a sacrifice to God, and He will not despise us when we go through it. He will be there and though tribulation come, and we get regarded as sheep for the slaughter, we are actually more than conquerors through His love and nothing in creation will be able to separate us from the love of Christ.

Application: ask God to increase your faith and He can make it increase. In John 14:13 it says “And I will do whatever you ask in my name, so that the Father may be glorified in the Son.” It doesn’t matter how small your faith is, God can make it grow into a big tree. Spend time in God’s Word to learn more about God and spend time with Him. A seed needs good soil and environment to grow. If you want your faith to grow fix your eyes on Jesus and walk with Him. In Matthew 11:28-30 it says, 28 “Come to me, all you who are weary and burdened, and I will give you rest. 29 Take my yoke upon you and learn from me, for I am gentle and humble in heart, and you will find rest for your souls. 30 For my yoke is easy and my burden is light.” 
In Ephesians 2:8-9 it states,
8 “For it is by grace you have been saved, through faith—and this is not from yourselves, it is the gift of God— 9 not by works, so that no one can boast.”

Those who believe will be sons of the kingdom and will recline with Abraham, Isaac and Jacob in the kingdom of heaven. Those who don’t believe will be cast into outer darkness where there will be weeping and gnashing of teeth. This is why Jesus came to save the world. 
16 For God so loved the world that he gave his one and only Son, that whoever believes in him shall not perish but have eternal life.
We are saved by Jesus’ atoning sacrifice on the cross for us. He took the place for our sins by bearing the wrath of God for us on the cross where he poured out his blood for us. This is why we have communion to remember what God has done for us. In Matthew 26:26-28 it states, 
26 While they were eating, Jesus took bread, and when he had given thanks, he broke it and gave it to his disciples, saying, “Take and eat; this is my body.”
27 Then he took a cup, and when he had given thanks, he gave it to them, saying, “Drink from it, all of you. 28 This is my blood of the[a] covenant, which is poured out for many for the forgiveness of sins.

Jesus took our sins and our place from the wrath of God and calls us righteous before God. By God’s grace, unmerited favor, in that we didn’t do anything to earn it, but by God’s free gift, we can be saved through faith in believing in what Christ did for you on the cross, saving you from an eternity in hell and atoning for your sins, paying the full price of what you have done, and calls you righteous, blameless, and children of the living God. If you haven’t already, ask God to enter into your heart and so begin the first step of your walk with God-a walk towards an infinity of eternal life. The first step with Jesus is a first step in a new life with Christ. Jesus loves you!!!

