Follow Christ!
Romans 15:1-7
We who are strong have an obligation to bear with the failings of the weak, and not to please ourselves. 2Let each of us please his neighbor for his good, to build him up. 3For Christ did not please himself, but as it is written, “The reproaches of those who reproached you fell on me”. 4For whatever was written in former days was written for our instruction, that through endurance and through the encouragement of the Scriptures we might have hope. 5May the God of endurance and encouragement grant you to live in such harmony with one another, in accord with Christ Jesus, 6that together you may with one voice glorify the God and Father of our Lord Jesus Christ. 7Therefore welcome one another as Christ has welcomed you, for the glory of God.

Let us build our neighbors up. In Leviticus 19:18 it says,
18You shall not take vengeance or bear a grudge against the sons of your own people, but you shall love your neighbor as yourself: I am the LORD.
And in Matthew 7:12-14 Jesus says,
12“So whatever you wish that others would do to you, do also to them, for this is the Law and the Prophets.
13“Enter by the narrow gate. For the gate is wide and the way is easy that leads to destruction, and those who enter by it are many. 14For the gate is narrow and the way is hard that leads to life, and those who find it are few.
Neighbors are people in your church, your friends, the people you live around, your coworkers and more. Many times there are conflicts in church and with friends and coworkers. Let us follow Christ’s example and love our neighbors as ourselves, following not our worldly desires to be bitter but overcome with love as Christ has loved us. 

Let us encourage one another with Scriptures. Romans 15:4 says,
4For whatever was written in former days was written for our instruction, that through endurance and through the encouragement of the Scriptures we might have hope. 
So we see we have we have the Bible for our instruction. In this age we have easy access to the Word of God whether an online app or a physical copy. Let us spend time in the Scriptures encouraging one another with Bible verses to help us with our daily lives and our walk with God. 
If you are going through hardships, read the Psalm as king David went through numerous hardships, fleeing from king Saul who sought his life, and who also went to God for his comfort and peace. The Beatitudes that Jesus preached in the Gospel in Matthew ch. 5 – ch. 7 is also beautiful to read. Let us follow Jesus’s teachings, especially those in the Beatitudes. Here are a few Psalms to encourage you:
Psalm 23:
The LORD is my shepherd; I shall not want.
2He makes me lie down in green pastures.
 He leads me beside still waters.
3He restores my soul.
He leads me in paths of righteousness for his name’s sake.
4Even though I walk through the valley of the shadow of death,
I will fear no evil,
for you are with me;
your rod and your staff,
they comfort me.
5You prepare a table before me in the presence of my enemies;
you anoint my head with oil;
my cup overflows.
6Surely goodness and mercy shall follow me all the days of my life,
and I shall dwell in the house of the LORD forever.

Psalm 1:
Blessed is the man who walks not in the counsel of the wicked,
nor stands in the way of sinners,
nor sits in the seat of scoffers;
2but his delight is in the law of the LORD,
and on his law he mediates day and night.
3He is like a tree planted by streams of water that yields its fruit in its season,
and its leaf does not wither.
In all that he does, he prospers.
4The wicked are not so, but are like chaff that the wind drives away.
5Therefore the wicked will not stand in the judgment,
	nor sinners in the congregation of the righteous;
6for the LORD knows the way of the righteous, but the way of the wicked will perish.

Psalm 34:4:
4I sought the LORD, and he answered me and delivered me from all my fears.

Let us be in harmony with one another glorifying God. 1 Corinthians 12:27 says,
27Now you are the body of Christ and individually members of it. 
As one body of Christ let us be in harmony with one another, glorifying God and enjoying Him forever. Romans 15:5-7 says,
5May the God of endurance and encouragement grant you to live in such harmony with one another, in accord with Christ Jesus, 6that together you may with one voice glorify the God and Father of our Lord Jesus Christ. 7Therefore welcome one another as Christ has welcomed you, for the glory of God.
As a church let us worship God with one voice praising Him for what He has done for us, who reconciled us to Himself through the atoning sacrifice of His Son, that we should be called sons and daughters of God, being made righteous and having all of our sins atoned for where we can be born again into Christ having put off our fleshly desires and walking in His love and fellowship.
	Jesus loves you and wants us to follow in His footsteps, loving one another. Let us learn more about Him through spending time in His Word and eating of the spiritual bread which is the Word of God. We all feed our bodies food to sustain ourselves, why should we not also feed our souls with the Word of God? Let us be one body of Christ as a church singing praises to God with one voice, thanking Him for what He has done for us by dying on the cross for us and being the atoning sacrifice for us. 

