Freedom from Sin
Romans 6:1-14
Dead to Sin, Alive to God
What shall we say then? Are we to continue in sin that grace may abound? 2By no means! How can we who died to sin still live in it? 3Do you not know that all of us who have been baptized into Christ Jesus were baptized into his death? 4We were buried therefore with him by baptism into death, in order that, just as Christ was raised from the dead by the glory of the Father, we too might walk in newness of life. 
	5For if we have been united with him in a death like his, we shall certainly be united with him in a resurrection like his. 6We know that our old self was crucified with him in order that the body of sin might be brought to nothing, so that we would no longer be enslaved to sin. 7For one who has died has been set free from sin. 8Now if we have died with Christ, we believe that we will also live with him. 9We know that Christ, being raised from the dead, will never die again; death no longer has dominion over him. 10For the death he died he died to sin, once for all, but the life he lives he lives to God. 11 So you also must consider yourselves dead to sin and alive to God in Christ Jesus.
	12Let not sin therefore reign in your mortal body, to make you obey its passions. 13Do not present your members to sin as instruments for unrighteousness, but present yourselves to God as those who have been brought from death to life, and your members to God as instruments for righteousness. 14For sin will have no dominion over you, since you are not under law but under grace.

	Romans 6 verse 4 says,
4We were buried therefore with him by baptism into death, in order that, just as Christ was raised from the dead by the glory of the Father, we too might walk in newness of life. 
We as believers are dead to sin and alive in Christ. Positionally, through baptism we have been buried with Christ and are raised to life by his resurrection. This means we have died to sin, and are made new again in Christ with the freedom to not sin. Before becoming a Christian we were slaves to sin, but now after being saved we are slaves to righteousness with the freedom to not sin. 
	Romans 6 verse 6 says,
6We know that our old self was crucified with him in order that the body of sin might be brought to nothing, so that we would no longer be enslaved to sin. 7For one who has died has been set free from sin.
Since we have died to sin, we are no longer enslaved by it. Having died to sin through being crucified with Christ, we have freedom to not sin anymore! In Galatians 2:20 it says,
20I have been crucified with Christ. It is no longer I who live, but Christ who lives in me. And the life I now live in the flesh I live by faith in the Son of God, who loved me and gave himself for me.
So having died to sin through baptism, where we appeal to God for a new conscious, which is like the mind of Christ, we have also been raised to life in Christ’s resurrection (1 Peter 3:21). Having been crucified with Christ, we are made new, having Christ live in us. We live by faith in the Son of God who loved us and died for us. 
	Now having died to sin and being raised to life in Christ, we should live our lives exercising our freedom to not sin. Romans 6 verse 11 says,
11 So you also must consider yourselves dead to sin and alive to God in Christ Jesus.
Let us live in righteousness, having been freed from sin and dying to it through baptism being baptized into Christ’s death and also being raised to life in His resurrection. Having been raised with Christ, we have the power to not sin! So let us live our lives in faith, not letting sin reign in your body to obey its passions (v12). 
	Verse 13-14 of Romans 6 says,
13Do not present your members to sin as instruments for unrighteousness, but present yourselves to God as those who have been brought from death to life, and your members to God as instruments for righteousness. 14For sin will have no dominion over you, since you are not under law but under grace.
Let us overcome sin, presenting ourselves to God as new creations in Christ and our bodies for instruments for righteousness. Sin will have no dominion over us, since we are not under law but under grace. We are saved by God’s grace through faith and by His grace we are made new in the image of Christ having been transformed in the renewing of our minds living by faith and walking in the Spirit where sin has no dominion over us because we are under God’s grace. In Romans 8:1-2 it says, 
1There is therefore now no condemnation for those who are in Christ Jesus. 2For the law of the Spirit of life has set you free in Christ Jesus from the law of sin and death. 
By God’s grace, He has set us free in Christ from sin and death. In 2 Corinthians 3:17 it says,
17Now the Lord is the Spirit, and where the Spirit of the Lord is, there is freedom. 18And we all, with unveiled face, beholding the glory of the Lord, are being transformed into the same image from one degree of glory to another. For this comes from the Lord who is the Spirit.
	Let us not walk according to the flesh, but according to the Spirit, having appealed to God for a new conscious through baptism, where we have the power to not sin, having died to sin and are raised to life with Jesus. Sin will have no dominion over you for you are not under law, but under grace (v14). Jesus loves you!!!

