Freedom From Sin
Romans 6:15-23
Slaves to Righteousness
	15What then? Are we to sin because we are not under law but under grace? By no means! 16Do you not know that if you present yourselves to anyone as obedient slaves, you are slaves of the one whom you obey, either of sin, which leads to death, or of obedience, which leads to righteousness? 17But thanks be to God, that you who were once slaves of sin have become obedient from the heart to the standard of teaching to which you were committed, 18and, having been set free from sin, have become slaves of righteousness. 19I am speaking in human terms, because of your natural limitations. For just as you once presented your members as slaves to impurity and to lawlessness leading to more lawlessness, so now present your members as slaves to righteousness leading to sanctification.
	20For when you were slaves of sin, you were free in regard to righteousness. 21But what fruit were you getting at that time from the things of which you are now ashamed? For the end of those things is death. 22But now that you have been set free from sin and have become slaves of God, the fruit you get leads to sanctification and its end, eternal life. 23For the wages of sin is death, but the free gift of God is eternal life in Christ Jesus our Lord.

A wild olive branch may grow in it’s own direction, being wild in nature. However a cultivated olive tree will grow in a beautiful way, having been pruned and maintained by it’s gardener. We too were once wild olive branches, slaves to sin, living our lives in lawlessness and sin, but now that we have believed in Jesus we are grafted into the cultivated olive tree and grow gracefully in it’s nourishing sap. 
	Having been set free from sin, we are to no longer continue in sin. We have been set free by the blood of Christ from sin, how can we go back to it? We may wander but God is faithful and we will not continue in sin in the end. In 1 John 3:4 it says,
	4Everyone who makes a practice of sinning also practices lawlessness; sin is lawlessness. 5You know that he appeared in order to take away sins, and in him there is no sin. 6No one who abides in him keeps on sinning; no one who keeps on sinning has either seen him or known him. Little children, let no one deceive you. Whoever practices righteousness is righteous, as he is righteous. 8Whoever makes a practice of sinning is of the devil, for the devil has been sinning from the beginning. The reason the Son of God appeared was to destroy the works of the devil. 9No one born of God makes a practice of sinning, for God’s seed abides in him; and he cannot keep on sinning, because he has been born of God. 10By this it is evident who are the children of God, and who are the children of the devil: whoever does not practice righteousness is not of God, nor is the one who does not love his brother.
We as Christians will not keep on continuing to sin as we are of God. Let us heed this verse to not continue in sin and pray to God to help in putting to death sin since sin will have no dominion over you, since you are not under law but under grace (Romans 6:14). Sin leads to death, and not only physical but spiritual. Let us listen to the Word of God, obeying what Jesus commanded, and by faith we can be righteous as it says in Romans 1:17, “the righteous shall live by faith” and in Jeremiah 23:6, “The LORD is our righteousness”. And in Romans 3:28, 
28For we hold that one is justified by faith apart from works of the law.
	Having been set free from sin and adhering to the Word of God we are no longer slaves to sin but slaves to righteousness leading to sanctification. We are sanctified by faith becoming like Christ and made holy in His image (Acts 26:18). We are sanctified by the Holy Spirit who lives in us and makes His home with us. Let us not grieve the Holy Spirit by our sins but endeavor to live our lives in faith living for the Son of God by walking in the Spirit and bearing the fruit of the Spirit which is love, joy, peace, patience, kindness, goodness, faithfulness, gentleness and self-control. As temples of the living God, be holy as God is holy (1 Peter 1:16).
Verse 22-23 of Romans 6 says, 
22But now that you have been set free from sin and have become slaves of God, the fruit you get leads to sanctification and its end, eternal life. 23For the wages of sin is death, but the free gift of God is eternal life in Christ Jesus our Lord. 
Once we become Christians we are being sanctified day by day through the help of the Holy Spirit and have eternal life in Jesus Christ. Sinning leads to death, physical and spiritual, but in the end we will not continue to sin because as it says in Galatians 2:20: 
20I have been crucified with Christ. It is no longer I who live, but Christ who lives in me. And the life I now live in the flesh I live by faith in the Son of God, who loved me and gave himself for me.
We are new creations in Christ with the freedom and power to not sin. Not only that, God has given us a gift of eternal life in Christ Jesus our Lord, having saved us by the cross and reconciling us to Himself as if we had not sinned at all by the covering of Jesus’ blood over our sins, having forgiven and forgotten all of our sins. John 3:16 says,
16”For God so loved the world, that he gave his only Son, that whoever believes in him should not perish but have eternal life. 
Having been made slaves of righteousness, let us walk in the Spirit as we have been given a free gift of eternal life in Christ Jesus.
