God's Law is Perfect

Psalm 19:7-14
The Law of the Lord Is Perfect
7 The law of the Lord is perfect,[c]
    reviving the soul;
the testimony of the Lord is sure,
    making wise the simple;
8 the precepts of the Lord are right,
    rejoicing the heart;
the commandment of the Lord is pure,
    enlightening the eyes;
9 the fear of the Lord is clean,
    enduring forever;
the rules[d] of the Lord are true,
    and righteous altogether.
10 More to be desired are they than gold,
    even much fine gold;
sweeter also than honey
    and drippings of the honeycomb.
11 Moreover, by them is your servant warned;
    in keeping them there is great reward.
12 Who can discern his errors?
    Declare me innocent from hidden faults.
13 Keep back your servant also from presumptuous sins;
    let them not have dominion over me!
Then I shall be blameless,
    and innocent of great transgression.
14 Let the words of my mouth and the meditation of my heart
    be acceptable in your sight,
    O Lord, my rock and my redeemer.

	How many of you have seen the movie Prince of Egypt? There is the exodus of God’s people from the land of Egypt and Pharoah. Later on as one reads in the Bible, the Law is given. The Law is what God wants us to follow and yet though we are sinners, and unable to completely follow the Law, we are saved from penalty of being unable to keep God’s Law by Jesus’s blood which covers over our sins. Only Jesus kept God’s Law perfectly, and upon Him we place our faith, because the righteous shall live by faith (Romans 1:17) and Jesus becomes our righteousness through faith. 
	The LORD is our righteousness (Jeremiah 23:6). 
Jesus paid for all our sins on the cross and saved us from bearing the wrath of God for our sins, by bearing the wrath of God for us, that we may be saved from an eternity of hell. 
	God’s law is good for us to keep as it can revive the soul, make wise the simple, be a delight to the heart, opening our eyes and fearing God is the hatred of evil. 
	The fear of the LORD is hatred of evil. Pride and arrogance and the way of evil and perverted speech I hate. Proverbs 8:13
God’s law is true and righteous and worth more than gold! It is also sweeter than honey and there is a great reward for keeping them. Let us remember the benefits of keeping God’s law by having faith in Jesus Christ, not doing good things because we feel legalistic in doing so, but out of gratitude for what Christ has done for us, let us love one another and uphold the law as God’s people, having appealed to God for a new conscious through baptism. 
21 and this water symbolizes baptism that now saves you also—not the removal of dirt from the body but the pledge of a clear conscience toward God.[a] It saves you by the resurrection of Jesus Christ, (1 Peter 3:21).
Psalm 119:72 says 
	The law from your mouth is more precious to me than thousands of pieces of silver and gold.
Learning about God’s law is worth more than thousands of gold and silver pieces. When the psalmist was going through suffering, he held onto God’s law and found salvation in Jesus. Beyond money did the psalmist find the value of God’s Word and His Law. Can money save you from your troubles? No, only God can save and His Word far exceeds thousands of gold and silver pieces. The worth of knowing Christ is beyond anything we have in this world.
Psalm 119:92 says 
92 If your law had not been my delight,
    I would have perished in my affliction.
93 I will never forget your precepts,
    for by them you have given me life.
94 I am yours; save me,
    for I have sought your precepts.
95 The wicked lie in wait to destroy me,
    but I consider your testimonies.
96 I have seen a limit to all perfection,
    but your commandment is exceedingly broad.
The psalmist sought God in his affliction, and found God’s law. God’s law is what saved him from his suffering. He saw a limit to all perfection, yet God’s law went beyond it. When troubles come, try reciting the law because that is what we can do in fighting the good fight of the faith. When Jesus was in the wilderness, fasting for 40 days, he fought and defeated the devil with the law. Jesus fought using Scripture in Matthew 4:4;7;10:
	4 Jesus answered, “It is written: ‘Man shall not live on bread 	alone, but on every word that comes from the mouth of God.’[b]”
	7 Jesus answered him, “It is also written: ‘Do not put the Lord 	your God to the test.’[d]”
	10 Jesus said to him, “Away from me, Satan! For it is written: 	‘Worship the Lord your God, and serve him only.’[e]”
When hard times come, fighting using Scripture such as the law can help you to encourage you, to revive you, make you wiser, enlighten you and it is perfect and clean. 

The Ten Commandments that was given by Moses are below:
Exodus 20:1-21
The Ten Commandments
20 And God spoke all these words, saying,
2 “I am the Lord your God, who brought you out of the land of Egypt, out of the house of slavery.
3 “You shall have no other gods before[a] me.
4 “You shall not make for yourself a carved image, or any likeness of anything that is in heaven above, or that is in the earth beneath, or that is in the water under the earth. 5 You shall not bow down to them or serve them, for I the Lord your God am a jealous God, visiting the iniquity of the fathers on the children to the third and fourth generation of those who hate me, 6 but showing steadfast love to thousands[b] of those who love me and keep my commandments.
7 “You shall not take the name of the Lord your God in vain, for the Lord will not hold him guiltless who takes his name in vain.
8 “Remember the Sabbath day, to keep it holy. 9 Six days you shall labor, and do all your work, 10 but the seventh day is a Sabbath to the Lord your God. On it you shall not do any work, you, or your son, or your daughter, your male servant, or your female servant, or your livestock, or the sojourner who is within your gates. 11 For in six days the Lord made the heavens and the earth, the sea, and all that is in them, and rested on the seventh day. Therefore the Lord blessed the Sabbath day and made it holy.
12 “Honor your father and your mother, that your days may be long in the land that the Lord your God is giving you.
13 “You shall not murder.[c]
14 “You shall not commit adultery.
15 “You shall not steal.
16 “You shall not bear false witness against your neighbor.
17 “You shall not covet your neighbor's house; you shall not covet your neighbor's wife, or his male servant, or his female servant, or his ox, or his donkey, or anything that is your neighbor's.”
18 Now when all the people saw the thunder and the flashes of lightning and the sound of the trumpet and the mountain smoking, the people were afraid[d] and trembled, and they stood far off 19 and said to Moses, “You speak to us, and we will listen; but do not let God speak to us, lest we die.” 20 Moses said to the people, “Do not fear, for God has come to test you, that the fear of him may be before you, that you may not sin.” 21 The people stood far off, while Moses drew near to the thick darkness where God was.

	In Psalm 1, where Psalm 1 and 2 are the introduction to the whole Psalms, it shows the way of a righteous man who delights in the law of the Lord and the blessings that come with it. Being like a tree planted by streams of water that yields its fruit in season and its leaf does not wither, in all that he does, he prospers. By faith we are made righteous and out of thanksgiving for what God has done for us, by sending His One and only Son to die for our sins, we can follow Him and His Word, becoming righteous through faith and not by works because by works no one will be justified. 
	For by works of the law no human being will be justified in his sight, since through the law comes knowledge of sin. (Romans 3:20). 

Psalm 1
The Way of the Righteous and the Wicked
1 Blessed is the man[a]
    who walks not in the counsel of the wicked,
nor stands in the way of sinners,
    nor sits in the seat of scoffers;
2 but his delight is in the law[b] of the Lord,
    and on his law he meditates day and night.
3 He is like a tree
    planted by streams of water
that yields its fruit in its season,
    and its leaf does not wither.
In all that he does, he prospers.
4 The wicked are not so,
    but are like chaff that the wind drives away.
5 Therefore the wicked will not stand in the judgment,
    nor sinners in the congregation of the righteous;
6 for the Lord knows the way of the righteous,
    but the way of the wicked will perish.

Being justified by God’s grace through faith, we don’t overthrow the law, but uphold it. Out of thanksgiving in our hearts, we obey what God calls us to do. 
	31 Do we then overthrow the law by this faith? By no means! On the contrary, we uphold the law. (Romans 3:31)
There are also benefits for following God’s law too!
Psalm 19:11 says:
 11 Moreover, by them is your servant warned;
  in keeping them there is great reward.
Let us remember that we are not justified by our works, our works don’t make us any more righteous, but through faith in Jesus Christ we are accounted righteous before God where we are imputed with the passive righteousness of Christ. We are white as snow and Jesus is our righteousness. We are justified by grace through faith and not by works, since no one will be justified by the works of the law.
Galatians 2:16 says,
yet we know that a person is not justified by works of the law but through faith in Jesus Christ, so we also have believed in Christ Jesus, in order to be justified by faith in Christ and not by works of the law, because by works of the law no one will be justified.

We are not under law, but under grace. Romans 6:14 says,
14 For sin will have no dominion over you, since you are not under law but under grace. 
We are free in Christ and in our freedom let us walk in the Spirit. Galatians 5:22-26 says,
22 But the fruit of the Spirit is love, joy, peace, forbearance, kindness, goodness, faithfulness, 23 gentleness and self-control. Against such things there is no law. 24 Those who belong to Christ Jesus have crucified the flesh with its passions and desires. 25 Since we live by the Spirit, let us keep in step with the Spirit. 26 Let us not become conceited, provoking and envying each other.

	The law of the Lord is perfect. Let us follow and uphold the law, living by faith and walking in the Spirit. Jesus paid it all for you on the cross, every sin you have done has been paid for in full by the blood of the Lamb. Isaiah 53:4-6 says,
4 Surely he took up our pain
    and bore our suffering,
yet we considered him punished by God,
    stricken by him, and afflicted.
5 But he was pierced for our transgressions,
    he was crushed for our iniquities;
the punishment that brought us peace was on him,
    and by his wounds we are healed.
6 We all, like sheep, have gone astray,
    each of us has turned to our own way;
and the Lord has laid on him
    the iniquity of us all.
Jesus paid it all for you on the cross, let us follow Him in gratitude for what He has done for us. Let us remember the Scriptures and Ten Commandments in times of need to help us, just like the psalmist did and found salvation in Jesus. God’s Word is powerful and is able to save. Jesus is mighty to save!
