God is Faithful
Hebrews 10:19-25
The Full Assurance of Faith
19Therefore, brothers, since we have confidence to enter the holy places by the blood of Jesus, 20by the new and living way that he opened for us through the curtain, that is, through his flesh, 21and since we have a great priest over the house of God, 22 let us draw near with a true heart in full assurance of faith, with our hearts sprinkled clean from an evil conscience and our bodies washed with pure water. 23Let us hold fast the confession of our hope without wavering, for he who promised is faithful. 24And let us consider how to stir up one another to love and good works, 25not neglecting to meet together, as is the habit of some, but encouraging one another, and all the more as you see the Day drawing near.

	Faith is like a man told to sit on a chair that is missing on of its legs and expecting not to fall. Have you ever done a trust fall with a friend before? When he says he’s going to catch you, do you trust him? With Christ we can always trust in Him to catch us when we fall. He will always be there to pick us up when we fall. His love for us is deeper than the deepest ocean.
Hebrews 10:19-20 says,
19Therefore, brothers, since we have confidence to enter the holy places by the blood of Jesus, 20by the new and living way that he opened for us through the curtain, that is, through his flesh, 
The curtain in the temple of God was torn when Jesus was crucified on the cross. That curtain represented the separation we had between us and God, and through Christ’s sacrifice, that hostility has been torn down, allowing us to enter into the holy place of God, that we have access to the Father through His Son, Jesus Christ. In 1 Timothy 2:5-6 it says,
5For there is one God, and there is one mediator between God and men, the man Christ Jesus, who gave himself as ransom for all, which is the testimony given at the proper time.
So Jesus being our mediator is our great high priest through whom we can pray to God directly. 

Hebrews 10:21 says,
21and since we have a great priest over the house of God, 22 let us draw near with a true heart in full assurance of faith, with our hearts sprinkled clean from an evil conscience and our bodies washed with pure water.
This is referring to baptism. In 1 Peter 3:21 it says,
21Baptism, which corresponds to this, now saves you, not as a removal of dirt from the body but as an appeal to God for a good conscience, through the resurrection of Jesus Christ, 22who has gone into heaven and is at the right hand of God, with angels, authorities, and powers having been subjected to him.
When we get baptized, we devote our lives to Christ and so appeal to God for a good conscience and being sprinkled clean from an evil conscience. Our minds are transformed and our way of thinking is made new in the knowledge and faith in our Lord and Savior Jesus Christ of what He has done for us, forgiving us of all our sins and entering into a relationship with us as our friend and the lover of our soul. Let each of us get baptized if we have not already, so that we can appeal to God for a new conscience and to ask Him to be our Lord and Savior.

Hebrews 10:23 says,
23Let us hold fast the confession of our hope without wavering, for he who promised is faithful.
In Psalm 91:4 king David says,
4He will cover you with his pinions, and under his wings you will find refuge;
	his faithfulness is a shield and buckler.
In 2 Thessalonians 3:3-5 it says,
3But the Lord is faithful. He will establish you and guard you against the evil one. 4And we have confidence in the Lord about you, that you are doing and will do the things that we command. 5May the Lord direct your hearts to the love of God and to the steadfastness of Christ.
God is faithful to take care of us and protect us under his wings. His faithfulness is a shield that blocks the attacks of the enemy and keeps us safe. We can rest in God knowing that He loves us and protects us from the enemy. We have God on our side, the Maker of the heavens and the earth, who formed every single atom and knows their every movement. In Romans 8:31-39 it says,
31What then shall we say to these things? If God is for us, who can be against us? 32He who did not spare his own Son but gave him up for us all, how will he not also with him graciously give us all things? 33Who shall bring any charge against God’s elect? It is God who justifies. 34Who is to condemn? Christ Jesus is the one who died-more than that, who was raised-who is at the right hand of God, who indeed is interceding for us. 35Who shall separate us from the love of Christ? Shall tribulation, or distress, or persecution, or famine, or nakedness, or danger, or sword? 36As it is written,
	“For your sake we are being killed all the day long;
		We are regarded as sheep to be slaughtered.”
37No, in all these things we are more than conquerors through him who loved us. 38For I am sure that neither death nor life, nor angels nor rulers, nor things present nor things to come, nor powers, 39nor height nor depth, nor anything else in all creation, will be able to separate us from the love of God in Christ Jesus.
In John 16:33 Jesus says,
33I have said these things to you, that in me you may have peace. In the world you will have tribulation. But take heart; I have overcome the world.”
Being a Christian doesn’t mean that we will have prosperity and everything will go right without any problems. Jesus said that we will have tribulation, but “take heart; I have overcome the world”. So we can trust in God knowing that He overcame the world and holds it all in His hands. That He will be there when the trials come and let us meet Him in faith when they come. Even in our weakness God is working. In 2 Corinthians 12:9-10 it says,
9But he said to me, “My grace is sufficient for you, for my power is made perfect in weakness.” Therefore I will boast all the more gladly of my weaknesses, so that the power of Christ may rest upon me. 10For the sake of Christ, then, I am content with weaknesses, insults, hardships, persecutions, and calamities. For when I am weak, then I am strong.
So even if we are weak, we are strong in Christ. His grace is enough for us and is always enough for us. In the song Enough by Chris Tomlin it says,
All of You is more than enough for all of me
For every thirst and every need
You satisfy me with Your love
And all I have in You is more than enough

Jesus is more than enough for you and me to be our strength when we are weak. In the song You Are My All in All it says,
You are my strength when I am weak
You are the treasure that I seek
You are my all in all
Seeking You as a precious jewel
Lord to give up I'd be a fool
You are my all in all
Jesus Lamb of God
Worthy is your name

In 2 Corinthians 4:7-10 it says,
7But we have this treasure in jars of clay, to show that the surpassing power belongs to God and not to us. 8We are afflicted in every way, but not crushed; perplexed, but not driven to despair; 9persecuted, but not forsaken; struck down, but not destroyed; 10always carrying in the body the death of Jesus, so that the life of Jesus may also be manifested in our bodies. 
God is our treasure and is faithful to keep us strong in the face of adversity. He is more than enough for us and let Him be the treasure that we seek.
In Hebrews 10:24 it says,
24And let us consider how to stir up one another to love and good works, 25not neglecting to meet together, as is the habit of some, but encouraging one another, and all the more as you see the Day drawing near.
Let us go to church and have fellowship with one another. As the Day when Christ returns draws near, let us encourage each other with Scripture and testimonies and build each other in love as Christ has loved us. Let us be prepared for when Christ returns bearing fruit in good works and following in His footsteps, daily bearing our crosses and denying ourselves. In Luke 21:34 Jesus says,
34 “But watch yourselves lest your hearts be weighed down with dissipation and drunkenness and cares of this life, and that day come upon you suddenly like a trap. 35For it will come upon all who dwell on the face of the whole earth. 36But stay awake at all times, praying that you may have strength to escape all these things that are going to take place, and to stand before the Son of Man.”
So let us be prepared for when Christ returns so that we may stand before the Son of Man. 
