God Gonna Get His Man
Luke 15:1-7
The Parable of the Lost Sheep
Now the tax collectors and sinners were all drawing near to hear him. 2And the Pharisees and the scribes grumbled, saying, “This man receives sinners and eats with them.” 
	3So he told them this parable: 4 “What man of you, having a hundred sheep, if he has lost one of them, does not leave the ninety-nine in the open country, and go after the one that is lost, until he finds it? 5And when he has found it, he lays it on his shoulders, rejoicing. 6 And when he comes home, he calls together his friends and his neighbors, saying to them, ‘Rejoice with me, for I have found my sheep that was lost.’ 7Just so, I tell you, there will be more joy in heaven over one sinner who repents than over ninety-nine righteous persons who need no repentance. 

Have you ever lost something important to you? Losing a car key in your home, or losing a wallet? And when you found it, how much joy you must have felt! In the parable of the lost sheep, heaven rejoices when Jesus saves his lost sheep. 
What Jesus wants to see is repentance from our sins. He doesn’t want you to be legalistic, being focused on the dos and don’ts but have a transformed life with Christ as your center. When a sinner repents from his sins, he or she sees the need for Christ in his life, of His mercy, and of His grace. That we are wretched sinners in need of a Saviour being sick and in need of a Healer who can heal their heart and mind with the transforming power of His Word. Jesus loves His sheep and leaves the ninety-nine to go save the one lost sheep and He is going to find His man. He promised “I will never leave you nor forsake you.” (Hebrews 13:5). Jesus loves you and watches over you and knows you. Psalm 139:13-16 says,
13 For you formed my inward parts;
	you knitted me together in my mother’s womb.
14 I praise you, for I am fearfully and wonderfully made.
Wonderful are you works;
	my soul knows it very well.
15My frame was not hidden from you,
when I was being made in secret,
	intricately woven in the depths of the earth.
16Your eyes saw my unformed substance;
in your book were written, every one of them,
	the days that were formed for me,
	when as yet there was none of them.

Jesus wrote all of our days and made us fearfully and wonderfully. All the friendships you’ve encountered, all the jobs you went through, your family, all these wonderful things were written before you were born. Jesus loves you and finds His lost sheep no matter how bad you’ve stumbled. Jesus is there to pick you up on His shoulders and carry you home when you get lost. So wherever you are in your walk with God, let us make sure to place our trust in Jesus because He is there with you, holding you in the palm of His hand. Proverbs 3:5-6 says,
5Trust in the LORD with all your heart,
	and do not learn on your own understanding.
6In all your ways acknowledge him,
	and he will make straight your paths.
Jesus is our shepherd who gave His life for the flock, being crucified and buried, descended into hell and rose again on the third day ascending into heaven at the right hand of God the Father Almighty who will judge the living and the dead. He paid it all for you on the cross and just wants you to believe in what He did for you. All you have to do is just believe in what He did and accept Him as your Lord and Saviour that His blood covers your sins, making you white as snow. Every bad thing you ever done, every guilty thing, washed away by the blood of the Lamb. How wonderful is the Lamb who takes away the sin of the world! John 1:29 says,
29 The next day he saw Jesus coming toward him, and said, “Behold, the Lamb of God, who takes away the sin of the world!
Jesus came down from heaven to save you, to take your place on the cross and be the atoning sacrifice for your sins. John 3:16 says, 
16 “For God so loved the world, that he gave his only Son, that whoever believes in him should not perish but have eternal life.
God sent His only Son, Jesus, to die for you and save you, taking your place on the cross that we may know Him and be saved. Can you imagine sending your only son to die for someone? Not only that, but for the whole world? Jesus took on the sin of the world-everyone’s sin-and wants you to just believe in what He did for you and so be saved. Jesus paid it all for you and considers you His precious sheep for those who believe in Him because a sheep know their shepherd and the shepherd knows his sheep. In John 10:14-15 Jesus says, 
I am the good shepherd. I know my own and my own know me, 15 just as the Father knows me and I know the Father; and I lay down my life for the sheep.
Jesus is the good shepherd who leaves the ninety-nine to save the lost sheep. Jesus loves you!!!
