Healthy Trees
Luke 13:6-9
The Parable of the Barren Fig Tree
6And he told this parable: “A man had a fig tree planted in his vineyard, and he came seeking fruit on it and found none. 7And he said to the vinedresser, ‘Look, for three years now I have come seeking fruit on this fig tree, and I find none. Cut it down. Why should it use up the ground? 8And he answered him, ‘Sir, let it alone this year also, until I dig around it and put on manure. 9Then if it should bear fruit next year, well and good; but if not, you can cut it down.’”
 
Figs are hearty fruits that are savory and sweet. If you had a fig tree, wouldn’t you be eagerly waiting for fruit to come from it? That’s what a fruit tree is made for! To bear fruit. We likewise are fruit trees made for bearing fruit for God. Ephesians 2:10 says
For we are his workmanship, created in Christ Jesus for good works, which God prepared beforehand, that we should walk in them.

In the first Shorter Catechism, it asks what is the chief end of man. The answer to it is: “Man’s chief end is to glorify God and to enjoy Him forever.” So we are made to be fruit trees bearing the fruit of good works for God’s glory. However, these works do not save us but it is by grace through faith that we are saved, not by works lest we should boast (Ephesians 2:8-9). So being a Christian means that we are not forced to do good things, but since we believe in Jesus Christ we are made new again with new hearts and minds with the desire to do good works. Titus 3:4-7 it says,
4But when the goodness and loving kindness of God our Savior appeared, 5he saved us, not because of works done by us in righteousness, but according to his own mercy, by the washing of regeneration and renewal of the Holy Spirit, 6whom he poured out on us richly through Jesus Christ our Savior, 7so that being justified by his grace we might become heirs according to the hope of eternal life.

By the Holy Spirit we are regenerated and renewed through his mercy being justified by grace and becoming heirs of God, and not by works. It is by Christ’s saving work on the cross that saved us. His blood covers over us washing us clean from all sin and making us new in Him. That the righteous shall live by faith (Romans 1:17). It is by faith that Christ’s righteousness is imputed unto us, that when we believe we are accounted righteous and blameless in God’s sight. In Galatians 2:20-21 it says,
20I have been crucified with Christ. It is no longer I who live, but Christ who lives in me. And the life I now live in the flesh I live by faith in the Son of God, who loved me and gave himself for me. 21I do not nullify the grace of God, for if righteousness were through the law, then Christ died for no purpose.

We as Christians have been crucified with Christ and He lives in us. We are made new in the image of Jesus living by faith in Him, following His Words. It is not by works of the law that we are righteous; no, it is by grace through faith that we are made righteous, lest we nullify the grace of God by claiming righteousness by our own works.
So as Christians we are fruit trees bearing fruit for God in good works because that’s what God made us to do. Let us continue bearing fruit for God by walking in the Spirit. Galatians 5:22 says,
22But the fruit of the Spirit is love, joy, peace, patience, kindness, goodness, faithfulness, 23gentleness, self-control; against such things there is no law. 24And those who belong to 

Christ Jesus have crucified the flesh with its passions and desires.
This is a single fruit with 9 characteristics. We cannot have one without the other. We are temples of the Holy Spirit and let us bear the fruit of the Spirit by loving one another, being in peace, having patience, kindness, goodness, faithfulness, gentleness and self-control. Are you bearing this fruit? Let us heed the warning of the parable of the fig tree that as a fruit tree, we are to bear fruit lest the tree be cut down. But not all is lost since manure will be provided for you to bear fruit. God loves you and wants you to bear fruit and provided this parable for you to wake you up to live by faith in the Son of God, not living your lives for your own pleasure but for Christ’s glory. You were made for a purpose to glorify God and enjoy Him forever, and not live as the rest of the world does. We are to be holy because He is holy (1 Peter 1:16). Holy means be separated from. So let us be holy in our lives by walking by faith and asking God to help us bear fruit for Him. We are not saved by our works but by faith in the Son of God and all who believe eventually do good things because faith without works is dead (James 2:17). Let us always be kingdom oriented in our thinking and actions. Ephesians 6:18 says
18praying at all times in the Spirit, with all prayer and supplication. To that end, keep alert with all perseverance, making supplication for all the saints.
So let us be healthy fruit trees bearing fruit for God, having love, joy, peace, patience, kindness, goodness, faithfulness, gentleness, and self-control.

