Heirs with Christ

Romans 8:12-18
12So then, brothers, we are debtors, not to the flesh, to live according to the flesh. 14For if you live according to the flesh you will die, but if by the Spirit you put to death the deeds of the body, you will live. 14For all who are led by the Spirit of God are sons of God. 15For you did not receive the spirit of slavery to fall back into fear, but you have received the Spirit of adoption as sons, by whom we cry, “Abba! Father!” 16The Spirit himself bears witness with our spirit that we are children of God, 17and if children, then heirs-heirs of God and fellow heirs with Christ, provided we suffer with him in order that we may also be glorified with him. 
	18For I consider that the sufferings of this present time are not worth comparing with the glory that is to be revealed to us.

Fight the good fight of faith Christian soldier! Having believed in the gospel and obtaining salvation we are now heirs with Christ living in the Spirit and putting off the deeds of the flesh having become sons and daughters of God. By having faith, we believe in John 3:16:

16“For God so loved the world, that he gave his only Son, that whoever believes in him should not perish but have eternal life.  

We have eternal life in Christ! All of our wrongdoings, every single one of them has been placed on Jesus when he was crucified on the cross. He took our place bearing our shame and guilt and saved us from the wrath of God. He saved us from an eternity of punishment, giving us eternal life with Him for those who would believe in His saving grace. In Ephesians 2:8-9 it says,

8For by grace you have been saved through faith. And this is not your own doing; it is the gift of God, 9not a result of works, so that no one may boast.

None of our good works could ever make us reach heaven. Our righteousness could never measure up to God’s perfect standard. In Isaiah 64:6 it says,

6We have all become like one who is unclean, and all our righteous deeds are like a polluted garment. We all fade like a leaf, and our iniquities, like the wind, take us away.

We see in Romans 3:9-18 concerning our state as sinners,
9What then? Are we Jews any better off? No, not at all. For we have already charged that all, both Jews and Greeks, are under sin, 10as it is written:

“None is righteous, no, not one;
no one understands;
no one seeks for God.
12All having turned aside; together they have become worthless;
no one does good,
not even one.”
13“Their throat is an open grave;
they use their tongues to deceive.”
“The venom of asps is under their lips.”
14“Their mouth is full of curses and bitterness.”
15“Their feet are swift to shed blood;
16	in their paths are ruin and misery,
17and the way of peace they have not known.”
13	“There is no fear of God before their eyes.”

Since the fall of Adam and Eve, we have been under sin. God in His love provided His own Son to take our place bearing our punishment, guilt and shame. He saved us by His own blood making many accounted righteous. Isaiah 53 prophesies about Jesus:

1Who has believed what he has heard from us?
And to whom has the arm of the LORD been revealed?
2For he grew up before him like a young plant, 
	and like a root out of dry ground;
he had no form or majesty that we should look at him,
	and no beauty that we should desire him.
3He was despised and rejected by men,
	a man of sorrows and acquainted with grief,
and as one from whom men hide their faces
	he was despised, and we esteemed him not.
14Surely he has borne our griefs
	and carried our sorrows;
yet we esteemed him stricken,
	smitten by God, and afflicted.
5But he was pierced for our transgressions;
	he was crushed for our iniquities;
upon him was the chastisement that brought us peace,
	and with his wounds we are healed.
6All we like sheep have gone astray;
	we have turned-every one-to his own way;
and the LORD has laid on him
	the iniquity of us all.
7He was oppressed, and he was afflicted,
yet he opened not his mouth;
like a lamb that is led to the slaughter,
	and like a sheep that before it shearers is silent
	so he opened not his mouth.
8By oppression and judgment he was taken away;
	and as for his generation, who considered
that he was cut off out of the land of the living,
	stricken for the transgression of my people?
9And they made his grave with the wicked 
and with a rich man in his death,
although he had done no violence,
	and there was no deceit in his mouth.
10Yet it was the will of the LORD to crush him;
	he has put him to grief,
when his soul makes an offering for guilt,
	he shall see his offspring; he shall prolong his days;
the will of the LORD shall prosper in his hand.
11Out of the anguish of his soul he shall see and be satisfied;
by his knowledge shall the righteous one, my servant,
	make many to be accounted righteous,
	and he shall bear their iniquities.
12Therefore I will divide him a portion with the many,
	and he shall divide the spoil with the strong,
because he poured out his soul to death
	and was numbered with the transgressors;
yet he bore the sin of many,
	and makes intercession for the transgressors.

We, being heirs of Christ, have a glorious hope in Christ having suffered with Him, bearing our cross and following Jesus. In Romans 5:3-5 apostle Paul writes,

3Not only that, but we rejoice in our sufferings, knowing that suffering produces endurance, 4and endurance produces character, and character produces hopes, 5and hope does not put us to shame, because God’s love has been poured into our hearts through the Holy Spirit who has been given to us.

Let us bear our crosses by following Jesus’s words and loving one another, trusting in the One who can give us strength to overcome. In Matthew 11:28-30 Jesus says,

28Come to me, all who labor and are heavy laden, and I will give you rest. 29Take my yoke upon you, and learn from me, for I am gentle and lowly in heart, and you will find rest for your souls. 30For my yoke is easy, and my burden is light.”

