Heirs of the Hope of Eternal Life
Titus 3:4-7
4 But when the goodness and loving kindness of God our Savior appeared, 5 he saved us, not because of works done by us in righteousness, but according to his own mercy, by the washing of regeneration and renewal of the Holy Spirit, 6 whom he poured out on us richly through Jesus Christ our Saviour, 7 so that being justified by his grace we might become heirs according to the hope of eternal life.

I learned at school what hope can mean. It can mean a both “now” and “not yet” component, where it is spatial, above us, and temporal, in the future. It also has meaning of “inheritance”. We have a hope of eternal life waiting for us in heaven with Jesus Christ our Lord, where 1 Peter 1:4-9 says 
4 to an inheritance that is imperishable, undefiled, and unfading, kept in heaven for you, who by God’s power are being guarded through faith for a salvation ready to be revealed in the last time. 6 In this you rejoice, though now for a little while, if necessary, you have been grieved by various trials, 7 so that the tested genuineness of your faith-more precious than gold that perishes though it is tested by fire-may be found to result in praise and glory and honor at the revelation of Jesus Christ. 8 Though you have not seen him, you love him. Though you do not now see him, you believe in him and rejoice with joy that is inexpressible and filled with glory, 9obtaining the outcome of your faith, the salvation of your souls.
I also learned that hope is connected to love and faith. When one increases, so do the others. The more hope we have, the more faith is grown, and more does our love for God and people grow. Let us always have hope in what will come, that our inheritance kept in heaven for us, trusting in God to be with us all the way.
    The goodness and loving kindness of God our Father came to save us from our sins by sending His one and only Son to die for the world, that we may have eternal life (John 3:16), who saved us from the wrath of God due to sin. There is a judgment day coming where we will have to give an account for what we have done in this life, whether good or evil (Ecclesiastes 13:13-14). How will you answer? Will you say, I gave tithe so I can go to heaven? Or will you say I donate to the poor so I can go into heaven? Ephesians 2:8-10 says
For by grace you have been saved through faith. And this is not your own doing; it is the gift of God, not a result of works, so that no one may boast. For we are his workmanship, created in Christ Jesus for good works, which God prepared beforehand, that we should walk in them.

We are not saved by good works, but by God’s mercy and grace we have been saved through faith. Nothing we did could have contributed to our salvation, nothing of our good works would have contributed to our salvation; nothing of what we will do would contribute to our salvation, but it is by the grace of God we are saved by faith in which the righteous God reaches down to us and plants the seed of faith into our hearts and wills our dead souls to live and believe in the gospel of Jesus Christ who came as a propitiation for our sins, who died for every man and woman on the earth and took our punishment in hell, the deepest pit anyone could go to, and rose again to the highest heaven at the right hand of God the Father Almighty who will judge the living and the dead. Out of our gratitude for what He has done for us, we act and do good works. Ephesians 4:8 says, 
8Therefore it says, 
    “When he ascended on high he led a host of captives,
        and he gave gifts to men.”
9 (In saying, “He ascended,” what does it mean but that he had also descended into the lower regions, the earth? 10 He who descended is the one who also ascended far above all the heavens, that he might fill all things.)
Jesus is our divine warrior who ascended to the right hand of God the Father Almighty where he said in Matthew 28:18:
“All authority in heaven and on earth has been given to me. 19Go therefore and make disciples of all nations, baptizing them in the name of the Father and of the Son and of the Holy Spirit, 20 teaching them to observe all that I have commanded you. And behold, I am with you always, to the end of the age.”
Jesus is seen as divine warrior in Psalm 68. In verse 32-35 it says,
32 O kingdoms of the earth, sing to God;
    sing praises to the Lord,                 Selah
33 to him who rides in the heavens, the ancient heavens;
    behold, he sends out his voice, his mighty voice.
34 Ascribe power to God,
    who majesty is over Israel,
    and whose power is in the skies.
35 Awesome is God from his sanctuary;
    The God of Israel-he is the one who gives power and strength to his people.
Blessed be God!
Also in Psalm 110 king David writes,
1 The LORD says to my Lord:
    “Sit at my right hand,
until I make your enemies your footstool.”
Jesus overcame the world by the cross, defeating sin, the devil, and death. In Colossians 2:9-15 apostle Paul says,
9 For in him the whole fullness of deity dwells bodily, 10 and you have been filled in him, who is the head of all rule and authority. 11 In him also you were circumcised with a circumcision made without hands, by putting off the body of the flesh, by the circumcision of Christ, 12 having been buried with him in baptism, in which you were also raised with him through faith in the powerful working of God, who raised him from the dead. 13 And you, who were dead in your trespasses and the uncircumcision of your flesh, God made alive together with him, having forgiven us all our trespasses, 14 by canceling the record of debt that stood against us with its legal demands. This he set aside, nailing it to the cross. 15 He disarmed the rulers and authorities and put them to open shame, by triumphing over them in him.
Jesus satisfied the requirement of the law, by taking the punishment of the law on the cross for us. He also subdued the evil powers of the world, triumphing over the cosmic powers of the world, where Christ is Christus Victor. He disarmed the rulers and authorities and put them to open shame triumphing over them in him by the cross. We have died with Christ to them through baptism and rose again in faith (Colossians 2:20; 2:12). Baptism is when we are incorporated into the death of Christ, where we have positionally died with him. By baptism, we are born again having an appeal for a new conscious. 1 Peter 3:21 says,
21 Baptism, which corresponds to this, now saves you, not as a removal of dirt from the body but as an appeal to God for a good conscience, through the resurrection of Jesus Christ, 22 who has gone into heaven and is at the right hand of God, with angels, authorities, and powers having been subjected to him.
By the washing and renewal of the Holy Spirit we are saved by God’s mercy through Jesus Christ. The Holy Spirit quickens our dead souls to believe in the saving work of Jesus Christ that we may believe in our hearts and so be saved. Galatians 4:6 says
6 And because you are sons, God has sent the Spirit of his Son into our hearts, crying, “Abba! Father!” 7So you are no longer a slave, but a son, and if a son, then an heir through God.

Since we are sons, God set a seal upon our hearts through the Holy Spirit. Song of Solomon 8:6 says, 
6 Set me as a seal upon your heart, as a seal upon your arm, for love is strong as death, jealousy is fierce as the grave. Its flashes are flashes of fire, the very flame of the LORD.
In the Song of Solomon we see the love between king Solomon and his wife, the Shulamite. It shows the deep love between man and wife and here we see the love of God being shown as fierce as fire, that jealousy is fierce as the grave, as flashes of fire, the very flame of the LORD. With Jesus we are saved and sought after, where we have a seal of love in our hearts, the Holy Spirit. God himself resides in us and makes His home with us, that He loves us so much that he went as far as the grave for you, enduring the fires of hell for you, being jealous over you that you won’t belong any other, but to Him only. He died for you and went through the fires of hell for you. He knew us before the foundation of the world and died for each and every one of us, that by his grace through faith we are saved and by His wounds we are healed (1 Peter 2:24). We belong to no one else, we are the LORD’s creation, His sons and daughters whom He loves where his love is as high as heaven. Psalm 103:11-13 says,
11 For as high as the heavens are above the earth,
    so great is his steadfast love toward those who fear him;
12 as far as the east is from the west,
    so far does he remove our transgressions from us.
13 As a father shows compassion to his children,
    so the LORD shows compassion to those who fear him.

    Titus 3:7 says
7 so that being justified by his grace we might become heirs according to the hope of eternal life.
By God’s grace he saved us. It is all in His saving hand in reaching down to save us. We did nothing to deserve it, it is a gift of God that we are saved. Not by our righteousness, not by our works, but the LORD is our righteousness (Jeremiah 23:6) that the righteous shall live by faith (Romans 1:17). Jesus becomes our righteousness and we are imputed by the passive righteousness in which the righteous shall live by faith in Jesus Christ. By faith we are made righteous before God, and not by our works. We through grace through faith become heirs according to the hope of eternal life. We become sons of daughters of God, becoming heirs of God to the hope of eternal life. We will live in paradise with God forever, having this hope which produces love and faith. Knowing Jesus and being with Him is eternal life. In John 17:3 Jesus says,
3 And this is eternal life, that they know you, the only true God, and Jesus Christ whom you have sent.
Let us enter into eternal life, starting with faith in knowing Jesus and the promises He has spoken to us. Knowing Jesus, is our eternal life, where we will spend eternity with Christ forever in heaven. The moment you believe, is the moment eternal life begins. Jesus loves you!!!

