Holy Sacrifices

A Living Sacrifice
Romans 12:1-7
I appeal to you therefore, brothers, by the mercies of God, to present your bodies as a living sacrifice, holy and acceptable to God, which is your spiritual worship. 2Do not be conformed to this world, but be transformed by the renewal of your mind, that by testing you may discern what is the will of God, what is good and acceptable and perfect.

	A long time ago, the Israelites used to give animal sacrifices for their sins. However, Hebrews 10:3-4 says 3But in these sacrifices there is a reminder of sins every year. 4For it is impossible for the blood of bulls and goats to take away sins. 
These sacrifices point to what Christ would do for the world. Hebrews 10:12-18 says, 12But when Christ had offered for all time a single sacrifice for sins, he sat down at the right hand of God, 13 waiting from that time until his enemies should be made a footstool for his feet. 14For by a single offering he has perfected for all time those who are being sanctified. 
	15 And the Holy Spirit also bears witness to us; for after saying,
	16 “This is the covenant that I will make with them
		after those days, declares the Lord:
		I will put my laws on their hearts,
			and write them on their minds,”
	17 then he adds,
		“I will remember their sins and their lawless deeds no more.”
	18 Where there is forgiveness of these, there is no longer any offering for sin.

Christ paid in full for all our sins, where our sins are remembered no more, who became the atoning sacrifice where we are forgiven from all our iniquities by grace through faith. 
	Let us be living sacrifices as our worship in our everyday lives. Let us ask for mercy to God to help us be living sacrifices, being holy and acceptable to God in our daily lives. Without God’s help we cannot overcome our flesh by our wills alone, we need the Holy Spirit’s help to strengthen us to overcome. Let us ask God to help, it all starts with faith for big things to happen. Living holy and acceptable lives, the new life in Christ, can be described in Ephesians 4:17-32. 
Ephesians 4:22-24
22 to put off your old self, which belongs to your former manner of life and is corrupt through deceitful desires, 23 and to be renewed in the spirit of your minds, 24 and to put on the new self, created after the likeness of God in true righteousness and holiness
Ephesians 4:31-32
31Let all bitterness and wrath and anger and clamor and slander be put away from you, along with all malice. 32 Be kind to one another, tenderhearted, forgiving one another, as God in Christ forgave you.

Let us put aside our old self, by being renewed in the spirit of our minds in daily prayer, daily devotion, and in love, walking in the Spirit by bearing the fruit of the Spirit which is “love, joy, peace, patience, kindness, goodness, faithfulness, gentleness, self-control (Galatians 5:22-23). Turn away from bitterness, anger and slander, and be kind and forgiving to one another as God has forgiven us (Ephesians 4:31-32). 
	Loving God first is important in living holy lives. John Piper from his book, 27 Servants of Sovereign Joy, writes a quote from Augustine:
	Suppose, brethren, a man should make a ring for his betrothed, and she should love the ring more wholeheartedly than the betrothed who made it for her… Certainly, let her love his gift: but, if she should say, “The ring is enough. I do not want to see his face again” what would we say of her? … The pledge is given her by the betrothed just that, in his pledge, he himself may be loved. God, then, has given you all these things. Love Him who made them.
So in what we do, whether it be games, tv, sports, family, pets, or food, let us give our love to God who gave them to us. He loves you and everything we have is because Jesus died for us. John Piper also quotes Augustine from his book: 27 Servants of Sovereign Joy,
“If the things of this world delight you, praise God for them but turn your love away from them and give it to their Maker, so that in the things that please you may not displease him.”
1 John 2:15 says 
15 Do not love the world or the things in the world. If anyone loves the world, the love of the Father is not in him. 16 For all that is in the world-the desires of the flesh and the desires of the eyes and pride of life-is not from the Father but is from the world. 17And the world is passing away along with its desires, but whoever does the will of God abides forever.
 Let us not love the world, but love God who made us and is with us everyday being our shepherd leading us to still waters and quiet pastures (Psalm 23). In what we do let us give glory to God. 1 Corinthians 10:31 says,
31 So whether you eat or drink, or whatever you do, do all to the glory of God.
Let us give thanks to God, giving glory to Him for the things that we do like sports, tv, food and games.
God loves you, and is the God of all comfort. 2 Corinthians 3-7 says 3Blessed be the God and Father of our Lord Jesus Christ, the Father of mercies and God of all comfort, 4who comforts us in all our affliction, so that we may be able to comfort those who are in any affliction, with the comfort with which we ourselves are comforted by God. 
	Let us be living sacrifices, living new lives in Christ with love for one another and asking God for mercy to help us live holy lives. Jesus atoned for all our sins on the cross and sanctifies us by faith, grace and the Holy Spirit. Jesus died for us, and everything we have is because of his sacrifice for us. Let us give thanks to God for what He has done and in whatever we do, let us do for the glory of God. Loving the world is something we must not do, since it is not from God, so we as Christians must hold to Christ and not the world. But in the things that we do, let us give thanks and glory to God, putting God first in all things. Matthew 6:33 says, 
33 But seek first the kingdom of God and his righteousness, and all these things will be added to you.
Let us put God first, and not the world, living holy sanctified lives, walking in the Spirit and not the flesh, bearing the fruit of the Spirit which is love, joy, peace, patience, kindness, goodness, faithfulness, and self-control (Galatians 5:22-23). Jesus loves you!!!
