It’s All Good

Romans 8:28-30

28And we know that for those who love God all things work together for good, for those who are called according to his purpose. 29For those whom he foreknew he also predestined to be conformed to the image of his Son, in order that he might be the firstborn among many brothers. 30And those whom he predestined he also called, and those whom he called he also justified, and those whom he justified he also glorified. 

	God works all things for our good, for those who love Him and are called according to His purpose. In every trial we go through, God has taken care of us, bringing us closer to Him and relying on His power. No one is without trials in this world, but as Jesus said in John 16:33 

33I have said these things to you, that in me you may have peace. In the world you will have tribulation. But take heart; I have overcome the world.”

We can take heart knowing that Jesus has overcome the world and all authority and power is under Him. 
	In 1 Corinthians 15:27 apostle Paul writes,

27For “God has put all things in subjection under his feet.” But when it says, “all things are put in subjection,” it is plain that he is excepted who put all things in subjection under him.

God is sovereign over all, omniscient (He is all seeing), omnipresent (He is everywhere), omnipotent (He is all powerful), and holds all things together by His Word. Colossians 1:15-17 says,

15He is the image of the invisible God, the firstborn of all creation. 16For by him all things were created, in heaven and on earth, visible and invisible, whether thrones or dominions or rulers or authorities-all things were created through him and for him. 17And he is before all things, and in him all things hold together. 18And he is the head of the body, the church. He is the beginning, the firstborn from the dead, that in everything he might be preeminent. 19For in him all the fullness of God was pleased to dwell, 20and through him to reconcile to himself all things, whether on earth or in heaven, making peace by the blood of his cross.

We can hold onto Christ because He holds it all in His hands. We have a great God in heaven and with us on earth!!! Jesus, through the cross, overcame the spiritual forces of evil in the world and satisfied divine justice for us in paying for our sins. This is known as Christus Victor by John Calvin. In Colossians 2:8-15 says,

8 See to it that no one takes you captive by philosophy and empty deceit, according to human tradition, according to the elemental spirits[a] of the world, and not according to Christ. 9 For in him the whole fullness of deity dwells bodily, 10 and you have been filled in him, who is the head of all rule and authority. 11 In him also you were circumcised with a circumcision made without hands, by putting off the body of the flesh, by the circumcision of Christ, 12 having been buried with him in baptism, in which you were also raised with him through faith in the powerful working of God, who raised him from the dead. 13 And you, who were dead in your trespasses and the uncircumcision of your flesh, God made alive together with him, having forgiven us all our trespasses, 14 by canceling the record of debt that stood against us with its legal demands. This he set aside, nailing it to the cross. 15 He disarmed the rulers and authorities[b] and put them to open shame, by triumphing over them in him.[c]

	Being a Christian doesn’t mean that we will not be without trials. Jesus said that we would have tribulation, but also said, “take heart; I have overcome the world.” So we can trust in Jesus who holds us in His hands. Jesus loves you more than you can ever imagine. “If grace is an ocean, we are all sinking.” (David Crowder Band-How He Loves). He loves you so much that He died for you-He took on a crown of thorns on his brow, Roman nails in His hands and feet, suffered 39 lashes by whips for you and went through the torment of hell, all to save you from an eternity in hell. God’s One and only Son came down to earth, taking the form of a servant to save you. Philippians 2:7-11 says,

7but emptied himself, by taking the form of a servant, being born in the likeness of men. 8And being found in human form, he humbled himself by becoming obedient to the point of death, even death on a cross. 9Therefore God has highly exalted him and bestowed on him the name that is above every name, 10so that at the name of Jesus every knee should bow, in heaven and on earth and under the earth, 11and every tongue confess that Jesus Christ is Lord, to the glory of God the Father.

	Romans 8:30 says

 30And those whom he predestined he also called, and those whom he called he also justified, and those whom he justified he also glorified.

For those of us who believe in Jesus, we are justified by Jesus’s atoning sacrifice on the cross. He took your punishment saving you from hell by taking your place as a final sacrifice for sins. Hebrews 7:27 says,

27He has no need, like those high priests, to offer sacrifices daily, first for his own sins and then for those of the people, since he did this once for all when he offered up himself.
 
Apostle Paul also writes “those whom he justified he also glorified.” Having been justified, we are glorified becoming like the image of Christ with the Holy Spirit as our guarantee. 2 Corinthians 1:21-22 says,

21And it is God who establishes us with you in Christ, and has anointed us, 22and who has also put his seal on us and given us his Spirit in our hearts as a guarantee. 

Isaiah 35:10 says,

10And the ransomed of the LORD shall return
	and come to Zion with singing;
everlasting joy shall be upon their heads;
	they shall obtain gladness and joy;
	and sorrow and sighing shall flee away.

We have a great hope in Jesus Christ who won the victory over sin and death! All things work together for our good for those who love God and who are called according to His purpose. God has overcome the world, so we can take heart and trust in God to move the mountains of trials for us through faith (Matthew 17:20). We can overcome with faith! Faith is our shield to protect us (Ephesians 6:16). Proverbs 3:5-8 says,

5Trust in the LORD with all your heart,
	and do not lean on your own understanding.
6In all your ways acknowledge him,
	and he will make straight your paths.
7Be not wise in your own eyes;
	fear the LORD, and turn away from evil.
8It will be healing to your flesh
	and refreshment to your bones.

When there are times of uncertainty, trusting in God is the answer. Lean not on your own understanding, and place your trust in God-He can make a way. Jesus always got your back and wait on the Lord to deliver in times of difficulty. Psalm 25:3 says,

3Indeed, none who wait for you shall be put to shame; they shall be ashamed who are wantonly treacherous.

Jesus overcame the world and makes all things work together for good because we love Him and are called according to His purpose. One thing I learned is that "if it's not good, God's not done yet."

Those who are called are justified and glorified. We are accounted righteous before God, having all our sins paid for by the blood of the Lamb. Having become justified, we are glorified becoming like Christ through sanctification for His glory. All things work together for our good! Jesus is with us and watches over us and loves us. He is always there for you. "It's all good." God loves you!
