Jesus the True Vine
John 15:1-17
I Am the True Vine
“I am the true vine, and my Father is the vinedresser. 2Every branch in me that does not bear fruit he takes away, and every branch that does bear fruit he prunes, that it may bear more fruit. 3Already you are clean because of the word that I have spoken to you. 4Abide in me, and I in you. As the branch cannot bear fruit by itself, unless it abides in the vine, neither can you, unless you abide in me. 5I am the vine; you are the branches. Whoever abides in me and I in him, he it is that bears much fruit, for apart from me you can do nothing. 6If anyone does not abide in me he is thrown away like a branch and withers; and the branches are gathered, thrown into the fire and burned. 7If you abide in me, and my words abide in you, ask whatever you wish, and it will be done for you. 8By this my Father is glorified, that you bear much fruit and so prove to be my disciples. 9As the Father has loved me, so have I loved you. Abide in my love. 10If you keep my commandments, you will abide in my love, just as I have kept my Father’s commandments and abide in his love. 11These things I have spoken to you, that my joy may be in you and that your joy may be full.

	As the yearly harvest goes by, we see grapes being harvested from the vines. As a vinedresser, the vines are tended and pruned so that they can produce more fruit for the season. Have you ever seen a malformed grape in your produce basket? These branches are pruned so that new ones can grow and bear much fruit. We are branches in the vine, that is Jesus, bearing fruit of good works for God. Let us abide in the vine that is Jesus. A branch depends completely on the vine for it’s nourishing sap to live; so, we as branches live completely from the vine that is Jesus. In Him we have our whole being, our identity, our life; that everything we have is because He died for us. In Galatians 2:20 it says,
20I have been crucified with Christ. It is no longer I who live, but Christ who lives in me. And the life I now live in the flesh I live by faith in the Son of God, who loved me and gave himself for me.
And in 2 Corinthians 5:17-21 it says,
17Therefore, if anyone is in Christ, he is a new creation. The old has passed away; behold, the new has come. 18All this is from God, who through Christ reconciled us to himself and gave us the ministry of reconciliation; 19that is, in Christ God was reconciling the world to himself, not counting their trespasses against them, and entrusting to us the message of reconciliation. 20Therefore, we are ambassadors for Christ, God making his appeal through us. We implore you on behalf of Christ, be reconciled to God. 21For our sake he made him to be sin who knew no sin, so that in him we might become the righteousness of God.

As branches we find our life in Jesus, having been positionally crucified with Christ, where Christ lives in us as we are living by faith in the Son of God who loved us and gave himself for us. For us, Jesus became sin who knew no sin, so that in Him we might become the righteousness of God. By faith can we be made righteous as it says in Romans 1:17
17For in it the righteousness of God is revealed from faith for faith, as it is written, “The righteous shall live by faith.”

Also in Ephesians 4:22-32 it says,
22to put off your old self, which belongs to your former manner of life and is corrupt through deceitful desires, 23 and to be renewed in the spirit of your minds, 24and to put on the new self, created after the likeness of God in true righteousness and holiness.
	25Therefore, having put away falsehood, let each one of you speak the truth with his neighbor, for we are members one of another. 26Be angry and do no sin; do not let the sun go down on your anger, 27and give no opportunity to the devil. 28Let the thief no longer steal, but rather let him labor, doing honest work with his own hands, so that he may have something to share with anyone in need. 29Let no corrupting talk come out of your mouths, but only such as is good for building up, as fits the occasion, that it may give grace to those who hear. 30And do not grieve the Holy Spirit of God, by whom you were sealed for the day of redemption. 31Let all bitterness and wrath and anger and clamor and slander be put away from you, along with all malice. 32Be kind to one another, tenderhearted, forgiving one another, as God in Christ forgave you.

We as branches must abide in the vine and are pruned to bear more fruit. We are sanctified by faith in the Holy Spirit and by faith we can become more like Christ. Let us continue walking with God in faith living by faith and as new creations in Christ as part of our pruning so that we can bear more fruit for God. In John 15:10 Jesus says,
10If you keep my commandments, you will abide in my love, just as I have kept my Father’s commandments and abide in his love.

Let us abide in Jesus’s love by obeying Him and following His example as He obeyed the Father’s commandments. 
Let us be healthy branches abiding in the vine of Jesus Christ listening to what Jesus says for us to do, which shows that we love Him. If you loved someone, you would listen to that person. So let us love our Maker and best friend, Jesus Christ, who loved you to the point of shedding his blood on the cross for you and enduring hell for you so that you won’t have to go through the pains of hell forever. He loved you and took it all for you that you can be saved, made righteous by faith, and become regenerated as new creations in Christ. John 15:8 says,
8By this my Father is glorified, that you bear much fruit and so prove to be my disciples.

So as Christians we must bear fruit and show that we are from Jesus. Let us continue in faith in doing good works, that with faith comes works. Naturally as Christians we bear fruit for God; let us continue to remember to bear good fruit for Christ. We are not saved by works, but by faith. Ephesians 2:8 says,
8For by grace you have been saved through faith. And this is not your own doing; it is the gift of God, 9not a result of works, so that no one may boast. 10For we are his workmanship, created in Christ Jesus for good works, which God prepared beforehand, that we should walk in them.
Jesus loves you!!!
