Jesus, the one True God
Isaiah 46
The Idols of Babylon and the one True God
1 Bel bows down; Nebo stoops;
Their idols are on beasts and livestock;
These things you carry are borne as burdens on weary beasts.
2 They stoop; they bow down together; 
they cannot save the burden,
but themselves go into captivity.
3 “Listen to me, O house of Jacob,
all the remnant of the house of Israel,
who have been borne by me from before your birth,
carried from the womb;
4 even to your old age I am he,
and to gray hairs I will carry you.
I have made, and I will bear; 
I will carry and will save.
5 “To whom will you liken me and make me equal,
	and compare me, that we may be alike?
6 Those who lavish gold from the purse,
	and weigh out silver in the scales,
hire a goldsmith, and he makes it into a god;
	then they fall down and worship!
7 They lift it to their shoulders, they carry it,
	they set it in its place, and it stands there;
	It cannot move from its place.
If one cries to it, it does not answer
	or save him from his trouble.
8 “Remember this and stand firm,
	recall it to mind, you transgressors,
9	remember the former things of old;
for I am God, and there is no other;
	I am God, and there is none like me,
10 declaring the end from the beginning
	and from ancient times things not yet done,
saying, ‘My counsel shall stand,
	and I will accomplish all my purpose,’
11 calling a bird of prey from the east,
the man of my counsel from a far country.
I have spoken, and I will bring it to pass;
	I have purposed, and I will do it.
12 “Listen to me, you stubborn of heart,
	you who are far from righteousness:
13 I bring near my righteousness; it is not far off,
	and my salvation will not delay;
I will put salvation in Zion,
	For Israel my glory.”

I saw in the news a few months ago, about a Russian robotics company named “Idol”. Their robot was doing a demo where it had to walk but fell on stage. In this day, we have to be careful of idolatry, that AI is the answer to humanity’s problems. Here in Isaiah we see idolatry in the past, and how they cannot save, and that God is the answer and the one true God. 
	Verse 3-4 says 
3 “Listen to me, O house of Jacob,	
	all the remnant of the house of Israel,
who have been borne by me from before your birth,
	carried from the womb;
4 even to your old age I am he,
	And to gray hairs I will carry you.
I have made, and I will bear;
	I will carry and will save.

God made each and every one of us, even before we were born, God thought of us, and made us. God is our Maker, and He will be with us to carry us through our lives in our old age. God made us and will bear our problems and carry us on His shoulders and save us. He is the Good Shepherd where Jesus says in John 10:11:
11 I am the good shepherd. The good shepherd lays down his life for the sheep.
Jesus saved us from our sins by the cross, thus fulfilling the Word in Isaiah 46:4, “I will carry and will save”. Jesus laid down His life for the sheep, where there is no greater love than that if one should die for his friends (John 15:13). 
Jesus not only saved us, but helps us carry our yoke as He said in Matthew 11:29-30
29 Take my yoke upon you, and learn from me, for I am gentle and lowly in heart, and you will find rest for your souls. 30 For my yoke is easy, and my burden is light.”
A yoke is a wooden object that two mules carry to plow the fields. We are on one end of the yoke, and Jesus is carrying the yoke with us on the other end. We bear fruit for God in our daily lives in loving one another, and reflecting Christ in our actions bearing the fruit of the Spirit which is love, joy, peace, patience, kindness, goodness, faithfulness, gentleness, and self-control (Galatians 5:22). Jesus helps us bear our yokes where we are to learn from Him by reading His Word and applying it to our lives. 
The word in Isaiah 46:4 
4 I have made, and I will bear;
	I will carry and will save.
Was fulfilled where Jesus not only carries our yoke with us, but our sins, saving us by the cross, taking our sins upon himself, where in 2 Corinthians 5:21 says,
21 For our sake he made him to be sin who knew no sin, so that in him we might become the righteousness of God.
Verse 12-13 of Isaiah 46 says,
12 “Listen to me, you stubborn of heart,
	you who are far from righteousness:
13 I bring near my righteousness; it is not far off,
	and my salvation will not delay;
I will put salvation in Zion,
	For Israel my glory.”
Jesus becomes our righteousness and salvation where it says in Jeremiah 23:6, “The LORD is our righteousness”. By having faith in the atoning sacrifice of Jesus, we can become righteous as it says in Romans 1:17, “The righteous shall live by faith” where we are imputed with Jesus’ righteousness who is perfect and blameless. Abraham believed in God and his faith was counted as righteousness, and so this blessing also becomes ours by faith in what Jesus has done for the world, in that we too can be counted as righteous (Romans 4:22-25).
Jesus is the way, the truth, and the life (John 14:6). There is no other Rock that we stand on as they are all sinking sand. Let us place our trust in Jesus, believing in His Word that He will carry, and that He will save as He has already done on the cross and is bearing our burdens with us in our daily lives. Jesus said in John 16:33
33 I have said these things to you, that in me you may have peace. In the world you will have tribulation. But take heart; I have overcome the world.”
In this world, we will have trials, but let us take heart because Jesus has overcome the world. Jesus loves you!!!

