Jesus, the Good Shepherd
John 10:1-5
	7So Jesus again said to them, “Truly, truly, I say to you, I am the door of the sheep. 8All who came before me are thieves and robbers, but the sheep did not listen to them. 9I am the door. If anyone enters by me, he will be saved and will go in and out and find pasture. 10The thief comes only to steal and kill and destroy. I came that they may have life and have it abundantly. 11I am the good shepherd. The good shepherd lays down his life for the sheep. 12He who is a hired hand and not a shepherd, who does not own the sheep, sees the wolf coming and leaves the sheep and flees, and the wolf snatches them and scatters them. 13He flees because he is a hired hand and cares nothing for the sheep. 14I am the good shepherd. I know my own and my own know me, 15just as the Father knows me and I know the Father; and I lay down my life for the sheep. 16And I have other sheep that are not of this fold. I must bring them also, and they will listen to my voice. So there will be one flock, one shepherd. 17For this reason the Father loves me, because I lay down my life that I may take it up again. 18No one takes it from me, but I lay it down of my own accord. I have authority to lay it down, and I have authority to take it up again. This charge I have received from my Father.”

	How precious is the relationship between a sheep and his/her shepherd! Sheep know the voice of the owners. They don’t follow the voice of strangers and will flee from them. In the same way, we are sheep who know the voice of our Lord and Savior Jesus Christ. We know His voice when He speaks to our hearts and through His Word. When He calls to us, we follow because we know Him and He knows us. Jesus is our good shepherd. 
	Jesus is the good shepherd who lays down His life for the sheep. The other hired hands who are not shepherds doesn’t protect the flock when wolves come to kill and steal. Jesus lays down His life for the sheep, always protecting us and never abandoning us, saving us by the cross. He saved us from the wolves, those who try to condemn us by being the atoning sacrifice for our sins, that He paid it all and there is therefore now, no condemnation for those who are in Christ Jesus (Romans 8:1). Jesus saved us from an eternity of punishment in hell by His precious blood pour out for us. He paid it all for you reconciling you to Himself. He died to protect His sheep. If you had a pet, would you protect it from harm? Jesus protected us from hell by giving up His own life for us. He loved us as His beloved sheep, and nothing can snatch us out of his hand. 
	Jesus knows us and we know Him. We are His sheep and belong to Him. If you had a dog, wouldn’t you know how he/she is like? And doesn’t he/she know you too? Jesus loves us and knows us more than we can comprehend. We are His beloved sheep and we know the voice of our Master. Jesus laid down His own life willingly for us and not only that He rose again from the dead on the third day ascending to heaven at the right hand of God the Father Almighty who will judge the living and the dead. He is Almighty God who gave up His life for the world to take our punishment upon Him and overcame the authorities and powers, triumphing over them by the cross. Colossians 2:13-15 says, 
13And you, who were dead in your trespasses and the uncircumcision of your flesh, God made alive together with him, having forgiven us all our trespasses, 14by canceling the record of debt that stood against us with its legal demands. This he set aside, nailing it to the cross. 15He disarmed the rulers and authorities and put them to open shame, by triumphing over them in him. 

He canceled our debt of sin by willingly giving up his life on the cross for us paying for every sin that we have ever committed by His blood. Jesus defeated the enemy on the cross and saved every one of His sheep. When He returns in His second coming, He is going to bring forth His glory, forever destroying death, sin and satan and ushering His people into everlasting life where there is no pain, no tears, no sorrow, no hurt, no suffering, no sin, no shame and no evil. Jesus is the Good Shepherd who made this happen by laying His life on the cross and rising again on the third day ascending into heaven and is at the right hand of God the Father Almighty who will judge the living and the dead. Jesus is our Good Shepherd who loves us and gave up His own life for us, that there is no greater love than to lay down his own life for his friends (John 15:13), and that He calls us His sheep. Jesus loves you!!!
