Jesus the Bread of Life
Mark 6:30-44
Jesus Feeds the Five Thousand
	30 The apostles returned to Jesus and told him all that they had done and taught. 31 And he said to them, “Come away by yourselves to a desolate place and rest a while.” For many were coming and going, and they had no leisure even to eat. 32 And they went away in the boat to a desolate place by themselves. 33 Now many saw them going and recognized them, and they ran there on foot from all the towns and got there ahead of them. 34 When he went ashore he saw a great crowd, and he had compassion on them, because they were like sheep without a shepherd. And he began to teach them many things. 35 And when it grew late, his disciples came to him and said, “This is a desolate place, and the hour is now late. 36 Send them away to go into the surrounding countryside and villages and buy themselves something to eat.” 37 But he answered them, “You give them something to eat.” And they said to him, “Shall we go and buy two hundred denarii worth of bread and give it them to eat?” 38 And he said to them, “How many loaves do you have? Go and see.” And when they had found out, they said, “Five, and two fish.” 39 Then he commanded them all to sit down in groups on the green grass. 40 So they sat down in groups, by hundreds and by fifties. 41 And taking the five loaves and the two fish, he looked up to heaven and said a blessing and broke the loaves and gave them to the disciples to set before the people. And he divided the two fish among them all. 42 And they all ate and were satisfied. 43 And they took up twelve baskets full of broken pieces and of the fish. 44 And those who ate the loaves were five thousand men.

	Bread has significant meaning in the Bible as it is not only meant for food, but represents Jesus’ body. When we read the Word of God, we are eating God’s Word, feeding our souls. And here in the miracle of feeding the five thousand, Jesus not only taught them His Word, but gave them bread to eat, being the shepherd of the flock. Not only did the bread signify His Word, but represents His body as the leftover pieces of bread numbered 12 basketfuls. This 12 represents the 12 tribes of Israel, and as the church. These broken pieces of bread represent His body broken for His people. 
	The bread represents Jesus’ body. In Mark 14:22 during the Lord’s Supper, it says,
	22 And as they were eating, he took bread, and after blessing it broke it and gave it to them, and said, “Take; this is my body.”
And in John 6:33 Jesus says,
33 For the bread of God is he who comes down from heaven and gives life to the world.”
And in verse 35
35Jesus said to them, “I am the bread of life; whoever comes to me shall not hunger, and whoever believes in me shall never thirst. 
And in verse 48-51
48 I am the bread of life. 49 Your fathers ate the manna in the wilderness, and they died. 50 This is the bread that comes down from heaven, so that one may eat of it and not die. 51 I am the living bread that came down from heaven. If anyone eats of this bread, he will live forever. And the bread that I will give for the life of the world is my flesh.”
And in verse 63 Jesus says,
63 It is the Spirit who gives life; the flesh is no help at all. The words that I have spoken to you are spirit and life.

	Jesus is the bread of life where we partake of it by reading His Word and believing in the Gospel where Jesus came to save the world from their sins by dying on the cross for us as the atoning sacrifice and pouring out His blood for the remission of sin, descended into hell, and on the third day rose again from the dead ascending to the right hand of God the Father Almighty who will judge the living and the dead. In John 1:1-5 it says,
1 In the beginning was the Word, and the Word was with God, and the Word was God. 2 He was in the beginning with God. 3 All things were made through him, and without him was not any thing made that was made. 4 In him was life, and the life was the light of men. 5 The light shines in the darkness, and the darkness has not overcome it.
By reading and believing in God’s Word, we partake in the bread of life, nourishing our souls with His Word, renewing our minds. Remember to make sure to eat of God’s Word! It is our food that we need to live otherwise we will be spiritually dry as Jesus’ words are “spirit and life” (verse 63). Let us hold fast to the Word of God and remember that we are His body, His church and He is our source of supply as the living Word of God. 
	Jesus’ miracle of feeding the five thousand shows that not only did He give them spiritual food, his message, but physical food which shows what was to come of Jesus’ body which was broken for the church as the 12 tribes of Israel. The 12 leftover basketfuls of bread represents the 12 tribes of Israel, and in the later miracle of feeding the four thousand, the seven basketful of bread represents the seven churches of God, the seven lampstands of which is the church. So we are Jesus’ body who was broken for us, giving life to us by His Word which nourishes us spiritually and gives us life. Jesus is the bread from heaven! Let us make sure to spend time in God’s Word and be fed spiritually by His Word as He is the living Word of God. Jesus loves you!!!
