Jesus With Us At Sea
Luke 8:22-25
Jesus Calms a Storm
     22 One day he got into a boat with his disciples, and he said to them, “Let us go across to the other side of the lake.” So they set out, 23and as they sailed he fell asleep. And a windstorm came down on the lake, and they were filling with water and were in danger. 24 And they went and woke him, saying “Master, master, we are perishing!” And he awoke and rebuked the wind and the raging waves, and they ceased, and there was a calm. 25 He said to them, “Where is your faith?” And they were afraid, and they marveled, saying to one another, “Who then is this, that he commands even winds and water, and they obey him?”

There was a movie called The Perfect Storm where a ship called the Andrea Gail set out to catch fish at sea. However, a hurricane came and the fishing crew experienced many disasters, eventually sinking to the bottom of the sea. Yet even though boats may fail, Jesus never fails. With a rebuke, He can still the storm and calm the raging waves. With Jesus, we have never been more secure. Let us strive to be on the boat with Jesus, because with Jesus at the helm, we will go on the best journey of our lives. 
If Jesus tells you to go on a fishing trip with Him, will you go? The disciples followed Jesus and obeyed Him when He said in verse 22 “Let us go across to the other side of the lake.” With Jesus on the boat, they were safe-even when He slept! When the waves came, and the winds blew, Jesus was peacefully sleeping. How prone are we to fret when the waves come! If Jesus slept, should we not be at peace too? The disciples were afraid of the sea and we too become afraid when troubles rise, yet Jesus is always there for us to teach us to not be afraid and have faith. If Jesus calls you to go somewhere, will you follow Him? Even if storms come, will you have faith? Because with Jesus, He can still the storm; with Jesus, He can calm the waves; with Jesus, can you grow in faith knowing that He will be there to catch you when you fall. The boat with Jesus is always safe, because Jesus is with us. Even when troubles arise, and hearts panic, Jesus is with us, being our peace. Phillippians 4:4-7 says,
4 Rejoice in the Lord always; again I will say, rejoice. 5 Let your reasonableness be known to everyone. The Lord is at hand; 6 do not be anxious about anything, but in everything by prayer and supplication with thanksgiving let your requests be known to God. 7 And the peace of God, which surpasses all understanding, will guard your hearts and your minds in Christ Jesus.
On the boat, you may experience hardships, feeling like God isn’t there or distant and may even question why things happen. But isn’t that the special thing about faith? We live by faith and not by sight. In those times when we can’t see what to do, God comes in unexpected ways to save. Jeremy Camp made a song called “I Still Believe” when his wife was dying of cancer and they were going through hardship. Some of the lyrics go like this:
I still believe in your faithfulness
I still believe in your truth
I still believe in your holy word
Even when I don't see
I still believe
Isn’t it beautiful to still believe, even when we don’t see? Because God makes a way for us and loves us. Some more lyrics go like this:
Though the questions still to fog up my mind
Your promises I still seem to bear
Even when answers slowly unwind
It's my heart I see you prepare
But it's now that I feel your grace fall like rain
From every fingertip, washing away my pain
With Jesus, He can make the storm go away. By His grace we can endure what may come. In our weakness, we are strong. Philippians 4:13 says 
13 I can do all things through him who strengthens me.
2 Corinthians 12:9 says 
9But he said to me, “My grace is sufficient for you, for my power is made perfect in weakness.” Therefore I will boast all the more gladly of my weaknesses, so that the power of Christ may rest upon me. For the sake of Christ, then, I am content with weaknesses, insults, hardships, persecutions, and calamities. For when I am weak, then I am strong.
So even when the storms arise with weaknesses, insults, hardships, persecutions and calamities, we can hold onto the boat because Jesus is with us. When we are weak, then we are strong. Let us have faith in Christ when troubles come because Jesus is with us. Let us go on the boat with Jesus, wherever He calls us. Luke 9:23-27 says,
     23 And he said to all, “If anyone would come after me, let him deny himself and take up his cross daily and follow me. 24 For whoever would save his life will lose it, but whoever loses his life for my sake will save it. 25For what does it profit a man if he gains the whole world and loses or forfeits himself? 26For whoever is ashamed of me and of my words, of him will the Son of Man be ashamed when he comes in his glory and the glory of the Father and of the holy angels. 27 But I tell you truly, there are some standing here who will not taste death until they see the kingdom of God.
Let us bear our crosses in what may come for following Jesus, enduring hardships and troubles because it is worth it. Because Jesus is worth it. Jesus is our God and He laid it all down for us on the cross and took the punishment for our sins, that we may not be punished by the wrath of God in divine justice. Jesus atoned for all the sins of mankind on the cross and in hell and rose again on the third day ascending to heaven at the right hand of God the Father Almighty who will judge the living and the dead. Jesus deserves our everything, and is with us when we go through trials as apostle Paul said, “For when I am weak, then I am strong.” (2 Corinthians 12:9). With Jesus, there is great reward of eternal life in Him in knowing His Word and living with Him forever in paradise. Though the seas may be rough, and water fills the boat, and the winds beat against the sail and fear grips the heart, let us rest assured that this is not overlooked, it is not ignored, it is seen by the Almighty God who controls the storm in His hands, ever making sure that the boat makes it to shore. Because if Jesus takes us on the boat, then we will be safe in whatever may come because we have eternal life in Jesus and we are never forsaken. Let us remember to always believe in Jesus even when we don’t see, living by faith and not by sight because He loves us and cares for us. (2 Corinthians 5:7). Psalm 103 says
Bless the LORD, O My Soul
1Bless the LORD, O my soul, 
and all that is within me,
bless his holy name!
2Bless the LORD, O my soul,
     and forget not all his benefits,
3who forgives all your iniquity,
     who heals all your diseases,
4who redeems your life from the pit,
     who crowns you with steadfast love and mercy,
5who satisfies you with good
     so that your youth is renewed like the eagle’s
6The LORD works righteousness
     and justice for all who are oppressed.
7He made known his ways to Moses,
     his acts to the people of Israel.
8The LORD is merciful and gracious,
     slow to anger and abounding in steadfast love.
9He will not always chide,
     nor will be keep his anger forever.
10He does not deal with us according to our sins,
     nor repay us according to our iniquities.
11For as high as the heavens are above the earth,
     so great is his steadfast love toward those who fear him;
12as far as the east is from the west,
     so far does he remove our transgressions from us.
12As a father shows compassion to his children,
     so the LORD shows compassion to those who fear him.
14For he knows our frame;
     he remembers that we are dust.
15As for man, his days are like grass;
     he flourishes like a flower of the field;
16for the wind passes over it, and it is gone,
     and its place knows it no more.
17But the steadfast love of the LORD is from everlasting to everlasting on those who fear him,
     and his righteousness to children’s children,
18to those who keep his covenant
     and remember to do his commandments.
19The LORD has established his throne in the heavens,
     and his kingdom rules over all.
20Bless the LORD, O you his angels,
     you mighty ones who do his word,
     obeying the voice of his word!
21Bless the LORD, all his hosts, 
     his ministers, who do his will!
22Bless the LORD, all his works,
     in all places of his dominion.
Bless the LORD, O my soul!
