Jesus is the Resurrection and the Life
John 11:25-27
25Jesus said to her, “I am the resurrection and the life. Whoever believes in me, though he die, yet shall he live, 26 and everyone who lives and believes in me shall never die. Do you believe this?” 27 She said to him, “Yes, Lord; I believe that you are the Christ, the Son of God, who is coming into the world.”

	In the movie Transformers with Chris Hemsworth there is the story of how Orion Pax, or otherwise known as Optimus Prime, became to be. He was a weak robot who was altered to be weak, but ended up becoming stronger. He, towards the end of the movie, gave up his life for his friend and died, yet somehow he was able to come back and beat the bad guys. Jesus gave it all for us on the cross, died and went to hell for all of our sins, and rose again defeating sin, satan and death where He will return in His second coming to usher in a new heavens and a new earth, bringing His eternal glory, peace and joy in that there will be no more suffering, no more shame, no more sorrow, and no more sin. Jesus won it all on the cross and gave us eternal life through His grace through faith, that we can believe in Jesus’s words: “though he die, yet shall he live, and everyone who lives and believes in me shall never die.” (v25-26).
	We have a blessed assurance in knowing that when we pass away, we will not die, but live. Our lives on this earth and in heaven will go on for eternity in the knowledge of our savior, Jesus Christ, who died for us on the cross, who descended into hell and rose again on the third day, ascending into heaven at the right hand of God the Father Almighty who will judge the living and the dead. Jesus loved us to the point of enduring the humiliation of the cross (the worst punishment for a criminal) and the wrath of God upon Him to take our place for the punishment of our sins, that there is no greater love than to die for one’s friends (John 15:13). If we had good news like this, wouldn’t we want to share it with everyone you love? We won’t just simply exist and then die in a grave, but live forever in Jesus Christ, who is the way, the truth and the life-knowing Jesus, learning about Jesus, following after Him, and living in Him. In John 17:3 Jesus says,
And this is eternal life, that they know you, the only true God, and Jesus Christ whom you have sent. 
And in John 3:16
16 “For God so loved the world, that he gave his only Son, that whoever believes in him should not perish but have eternal life.
According to Mounce’s Complete Expository Dictionary Old and New Testament Words, “Those who believe receive an ‘eternal inheritance’ (Heb. 9:15). The resurrected body will also be eternal, dwelling forever in heaven (2 Cor. 5:1)”.
	Whatever you have done, has been already paid for by the cross. Jesus paid it all on the cross and wants you to believe in what He did for you. There is therefore now no condemnation for those who are in Christ Jesus (Romans 8:1). If we believe in what He did on the cross, raising up from the dead on the third day and ascending to the right hand of God the Father Almighty, and believe that Jesus Christ is Lord, you will be saved from judgement. Romans 10:9 says,
because, if you confess with your mouth that Jesus is Lord and believe in your heart that God raised him from the dead, you will be saved.
So let us take heart, knowing that Jesus overcame the world (John 16:33) and secured our salvation bringing eternal life to us through His atoning sacrifice on the cross that by grace through faith we are saved, not by works lest we should boast. Ephesians 2:8-10 says
8 For by grace you have been saved through faith. And this is not your own doing; it is the gift of God, 9 not a result of works, so that no one may boast. 10 For we are his workmanship, created in Christ Jesus for good works, which God prepared beforehand, that we should walk in them.
	Jesus is always watching over you, and loves you and wrote all your days in His book (Psalm 139). I saw a video on Charles Surgeon, a famous preacher, who showed me that Jesus is there with you in the storm, He is there when the waters rise, He is there in the fire, He is there in the heat of battle, He is our Captain, He is there with you leading you to quiet waters and calm pastures, Jesus is always with us, let us trust in Him knowing that He bought it all for you through His blood and desires that you should be with Him for eternity because He loves you (Isaiah 43:2, Psalm 23). Let us place our faith and trust in Jesus and believe that we have eternal life in Jesus Christ! Jesus loves you!!!



