Judge Not, That You Be Not Judged 
Romans 14:4-12
Do Not Pass Judgment on One Another
4Who are you to pass judgment on the servant of another? It is before his own master that he stands or falls. And he will be upheld, for the Lord is able to make him stand.
	5One person esteems one day as better than another, while another esteems all days alike. Each one should be fully convinced in his own mind. 6The one who observes the day, observes it in honor of the Lord. The one who eats, eats in the honor of the Lord, since he gives thanks to God, while the one who abstains, abstains in honor of the Lord and gives thanks to God. 7For none of us lives to himself, and none of us dies to himself. 8For if we live, we live to the Lord, and if we die, we die to the Lord. So then, whether we live or whether we die, we are the Lord’s. 9For to this end Christ died and lived again, that he might be Lord both of the dead and of the living.
	10Why do you pass judgment on your brother? Or you, why do you despise your brother? For we will all stand before the judgment seat of God; 11for it is written,
	“As I live, says the Lord, every knee shall bow to me,
		and every tongue shall confess to God.”
12So then each of us will give an account of himself to God.

In Matthew 7:1-5 Jesus says,
“Judge not, that you be not judged. 2For with the judgment you pronounce you will be judged, and with the measure you use it will be measured to you. 3Why do you see the speck that is in your brother’s eye, but do not notice the log that is in your own eye? 4Or how can you say to your brother, ‘Let me take the speck out of your eye,’ when there is the log in your own eye? 5You hypocrite, first take the log out of your own eye, and then you will see clearly to take the speck out of your brother’s eye.

Let us not judge one another. Romans 3:23-24 says,
23for all have sinned and fall short of the glory of God, 24and are justified by his grace as a gift, through the redemption that is in Christ Jesus, 25whom God put forward as a propitiation by his blood, to be received by faith. This was to show God’s righteousness, because in his divine forbearance he had passed over former sins.

We have all sinned. In James 2:10 it says,
10For whoever keeps the whole law but fails in one point has become guilty of all of it. 11For he who said, “Do not commit adultery,” also said, “Do not murder.” If you do not commit adultery but do murder, you have become a transgressor of the law. 12So speak and so act as those who are to be judged under the law of liberty. 13For judgement is without mercy to one who has shown no mercy. Mercy triumphs over judgment.

God forgave us of our sins and we are free from judgement since we have faith in the atoning work of Jesus. If God forgave you of your sins, should you not also forgive others their sins too? Let us not judge one another since we have our own faults that we are blind to. Mark 11:25 says,

25And whenever you stand praying, forgive, if you have anything against anyone, so that your Father also who is in heaven may forgive you your trespasses.”

Romans 13:4 says
4Who are you to pass judgment on the servant of another? It is before his own master that he stands or falls. And he will be upheld, for the Lord is able to make him stand.

So let us not judge another brother or sister, since God is our master and He will uphold His own. What a horrible thing it is to judge one another and be found opposing God! Let us be in His will and follow His Word.

Romans 13:6-9 says,
6The one who observes the day, observes it in honor of the Lord. The one who eats, eats in the honor of the Lord, since he gives thanks to God, while the one who abstains, abstains in honor of the Lord and gives thanks to God. 7For none of us lives to himself, and none of us dies to himself. 8For if we live, we live to the Lord, and if we die, we die to the Lord. So then, whether we live or whether we die, we are the Lord’s. 9For to this end Christ died and lived again, that he might be Lord both of the dead and of the living.

In whatever we do, let us honor the Lord. In 1 Corinthians 10:31 it says,
31So, whether you eat or drink, or whatever you do, do all to the glory of God.
We live to the Lord, and we exist for the glory of God. In the Westminster Shorter Catechism #1 it says, 
What is the chief end of man?
The chief end of man is to glorify God and enjoy Him forever.
In Galatians 2:20 it says,
20I have been crucified with Christ. It is no longer I who live, but Christ who lives in me. And the life I now live in the flesh I live by faith in the Son of God, who loved me and gave himself for me.
Our identity is in Christ; He is who we aspire to become like and we are His body each being a part of one another. For what body has there been a leg persecuting an arm? We are one in Christ, let us love one another like so.

Let us love one another and not pass judgment on one another. We live for the honor of the Lord and the glory of God becoming like Him every day. Let us follow Jesus and His Word. In Matthew 11:28-30 Jesus says,
28Come to me, all who labor and are heavy laden, and I will you reset. 29Take my yoke upon you, and learn from me, for I am gentle and lowly in heart, and you will find rest for you souls. 30For my yoke is easy, and my burden is light.”
Following Jesus and His teachings will make your burdens light! Carrying heavy things like judgment on one another will weigh you down. Let us be free in Jesus!
