Justified by Faith in God’s Grace
Romans 5:1-5
Therefore, since we have been justified by faith, we have peace with God through our Lord Jesus Christ. 2Through him we have also obtained access by faith into this grace in which we stand, and we rejoice in hope of the glory of God. 3Not only that, but we rejoice in our sufferings, knowing that suffering produces endurance, 4and endurance produces character, and character produces hope, 5and hope does not put us to shame, because God’s love has been poured into our hearts through the Holy Spirit who has been given to us. 
	Eric Liddel was an Olympic sprinter who was known for not running in the heat because it was on Sunday to honor God and keep the Sabbath holy. Instead he competed in the 400 meter on a weekday and won the gold medal. He then decided to go to China to be a minister and a missionary. However, during the Japanese invasion in World War 2 he was placed in an internment camp. He suffered greatly there and yet he had hope in God, racing the Japanese and beating them in his sickly hungry state. In Hebrews 11:32 it says,
32And what more shall I say? For time would fail me to tell of Gideon, Barak, Samson, Jephthah, of David and Samuel and the prophets-33who through faith conquered kingdoms, enforced justice, obtained promises, stopped the mouths of lions, 34quenched the power of fire, escaped the edge of the sword, were made strong out of weakness, became mighty in war, put foreign armies to flight. 35 Women received back their dead by resurrection. Some were tortured, refusing to accept release, so that they might rise again to a better life. 36Others suffered mocking and flogging, and even chains and imprisonment. 37They were stoned, they were sawn in two, they were killed with the sword. They went about in skins of sheep and goats, destitute, afflicted, mistreated-38of whom the world was not worthy-wandering about in deserts and mountains, and in dens and caves of the earth.
Eric Liddel had faith to conquer mountains.
 We have peace in Jesus Christ, knowing we are justified before God. Ours sins are atoned for and we have an everlasting relationship with God and there is no hostility as it has been torn down. 
In Ephesians 2:13 Apostle Paul says,
13But now in Christ Jesus you who once were far off have been brought near by the blood of Christ. 14For he himself is our peace, who has made us both one and has broken down in his flesh the dividing wall of hostility 15by abolishing the law of commandments expressed in ordinances, that he might create in himself one new man in place of the two, so making peace, 16and might reconcile us both to God in one body through the cross, thereby killing the hostility. 
Jesus is our peace and has broken down the wall of hostility by abolishing the law of commandments expressed in ordinances. Jesus took on the wrath of God for us where we were dead in sin, unable to fully keep the law, and ransomed us by taking our place raising us up in him through his life and being reborn in Christ. So how are we made into a new man? In John 3:5 it says,
5Jesus answered, “Truly, truly, I say to you, unless one is born of water and the Spirit, he cannot enter the kingdom of God. 6That which is born of flesh is flesh, and that which is born of the Spirit is spirit. 7Do not marvel that I said to you, ‘You must be born again.’ 8The wind blows where it wishes, and you hear its sound, but you do not know where it comes from or where it goes. So it is with everyone who is born of the Spirit.
So I encourage you, if you haven’t been baptized yet, go get baptized and become a new creation in Christ, being born of water and the Spirit.
	We stand in the grace we have received by faith and rejoice in the hope of the glory of God. What is faith? Hebrews 11:1:
Now faith is the assurance of things hoped for, the conviction of things not seen. 
It is like sitting in a chain that is missing one of its legs and being assured you won’t fall. With faith we have hope of a future with God in heaven, where there will be no more tears, no more sorrow, and no more pain. Isaiah 25:8
8 He will swallow up death forever; and the Lord God will wipe away tears from all faces,
	and the reproach of his people he will take away from all the earth,
	for the LORD has spoken.
Revelation 21:4
4He will wipe away every tear from their eyes, and death shall be no more, neither shall there be mourning, nor crying, nor pain anymore, for the former things have passed away.”
Christians have great hope of the glory of God. We have much to look forward to! A day where there is no more sorrow, no more pain and no more death, a day where we can finally meet our Maker in heaven.
	We rejoice in our sufferings because it produces endurance, character and hope. When we go through hard times, we become stronger people, and having gone through many troubles, are able to face trials with character. One grows in character having gone through tough times and especially increases in the hope that we have-that everything will turn out okay. When there are trials, have hope because God loves you through the Holy Spirit who is in you. God is with you, ever helping you to endure and grow in Him. Psalm 91:14-16
14	 “Because he holds fast to me in love, I will deliver him;
		I will protect him, because he knows my name.
15	When he calls to me, I will answer him;
		I will be with him in trouble;
		I will rescue him and honor him.
16	With long life I will satisfy him
		And show him my salvation.”
Jesus loves you and wants you to have a relationship with Him, to be your friend and the lover of your soul. John 16:33 Jesus says,
33I have said these things to you, that in me you may have peace. In the world you will have tribulation. But take heart; I have overcome the world.

