Justification By Faith
	The Pauline doctrine of justification by faith will be discussed in this paper. How justification by faith became expounded by Martin Luther will be described where the righteous shall live by faith (Romans 1:17) and sola fide. What Jesus teaches about justification is included, along with Old Testament references to Pauline justification by faith. Lastly, references in the New Testament will be shown relating to justification by faith, including that of apostle James. Justification by faith as described by apostle Paul is rooted in the Scripture from the OT to the NT.
	The doctrine of justification by faith, is explained by Martin Luther as a passive righteousness where “He who through faith is righteous shall live.”[1] He says through faith one becomes righteous through the passive righteousness in which God justifies us by his mercy. Martin Luther defines Christians as being of not a multitude of works, but by one work of faith of believing in Jesus Christ.[2] Regarding faith being sufficient for righteousness, Martin Luther expands on the Pauline doctrine of justification by faith by expounding upon how faith fills believers with righteousness without any additional need to become more righteous.[3]  Justification comes by believing in one’s heart of what Jesus has done.

------------------------------
[1] At last, by the mercy of God, meditating day and night, I gave heed to the context of the words, namely, “In it the righteousness of God is revealed, as it is written, ‘He who through faith is righteous shall live.’” . . . And this is the meaning: the righteousness of God is revealed by the gospel, namely, the passive righteousness with which [the] merciful God justifies us by faith, as it is written, “He who through faith is righteous shall live.”
See: “Here We Stand”, desiringgod.org, https://www.desiringgod.org/articles/here-he-stood.
[2] No other work makes a Christian. Thus when the Jews asked Christ, as related in John 6 [:28], what they must do “to be doing the work of God,” he brushed aside the multitude of works which he saw they did in great profusion and suggested one work, saying, “This is the work of God, that you believe in him whom he has sent” [John 6:29]; “for on him has God the Father set his seal” [John 6:27].
See: Martin Luther, Christian Liberty (Philadelphia, PA: Fortress Press, 1957), 10.
 
[3] This is as though he said, “Faith, which is a small and perfect fulfilment of the law, will fill believers with so great a righteousness that they need nothing more to become righteous.” So Paul says, Rom. 10 [:10], “For man believes with his heart and so is justified.”
See: Martin Luther, Christian Liberty, 10-11.


	Martin Luther taught sola fide, Faith Alone, in the doctrine of justification by faith alone. There are three components to sola fide, where the first is that it is forensic, not formative. It is immediate justification, not gradual and “God, as Judge, declares sinners to be righteous because Jesus’ righteousness has been credited, or imputed, to their account.”[4] The second component is where justification is distinct from sanctification. Busenitz quotes Luther: “Christians are not made righteous in doing righteous things. But being now made righteous by faith in Christ, they do righteous things.”[5] The third component is where the imputed righteousness of Christ is the basis for justification. Busenitz quotes Luther: “As Adam became a cause of death to his descendants, though they did not eat of the forbidden tree, so Christ has become a Dispenser of righteousness to those who are of Him, though they have not earned any righteousness; for through the Cross He has secured righteousness for all men.”[6]


------------------
[4] Busenitz, Nathan, “THE SUBSTANCE OF SOLA FIDE: JUSTIFICATION DEFENDED FROM SCRIPTURE IN THE WRITINGS OF THE REFORMERS,” The Master's Seminary Journal 32 no 1 (2021), 81.
[5] Busenitz, Nathan, “THE SUBSTANCE OF SOLA FIDE: JUSTIFICATION DEFENDED FROM SCRIPTURE IN THE WRITINGS OF THE REFORMERS,” 85.
[6] Busenitz, Nathan, “THE SUBSTANCE OF SOLA FIDE: JUSTIFICATION DEFENDED FROM SCRIPTURE IN THE WRITINGS OF THE REFORMERS,” 89.


	There are references to the Old Testament regarding righteousness which tie toward to Pauline Theology of justification by faith. Jeremiah 23:6 says,
6 In his days Judah will be saved, and Israel will dwell securely. And this is the name by which he will be called: ‘The LORD is our righteousness.’
God becomes our righteousness through faith in him where it is not our own righteousness, but an alienated righteousness that comes from God through faith in Jesus Christ. What he has done has been imputed unto his saints, where he becomes their righteousness through faith.[7] Regarding how one is declared righteous, Habakkuk 2:4 says,
“Behold, his soul is puffed up; it is not upright within him, but the righteous shall live by his faith.”
Thus, we see that those who are not humble, those who soul is puffed up, either by their own works or their pride, are not upright or righteous, but rather “the righteous shall live by his faith.” Faith in Jesus Christ is what makes one accounted righteous, where Jesus himself becomes the Christian’s righteousness, instead of one’s own righteousness. This is also referenced in the New Testament by apostle Paul in Romans 1:17:
17 For in it the righteousness of God is revealed from faith for faith, as it is written, “The righteous shall live by faith.”
One can see God’s righteousness being revealed through faith where the saints are declared righteous by their faith in Jesus Christ and not by their works. If it were by works, then one would have reason to boast, thus one’s soul would be “puffed up” in what they have earned (Habakkuk 2:4). However, this is a contradiction to the definition of grace.
	Grace is towards those who cannot earn or do not deserve acceptance and goodness. [8] If one tries to attain merited favor by their works, then grace would no longer be grace, as it was earned, and not a gift. Romans 11:6 says,
6 But if it is by grace, it is no longer on the basis of works; otherwise, grace would no longer be grace.
Thus, how one is declared righteous, is by grace through faith (Ephesians 2:8-9) in Jesus Christ. By believing in what Christ has done, one can receive the free gift of grace which requires no work (Romans 4:5-8), lest boasting should occur (Ephesians 2:8-9) of attaining or contributing to the salvation of one’s soul, in which works cannot suffice as the cost of what Jesus did to save one’s soul was the punishment of hell, as one sin breaks the entire law (James 2:10). None are righteous apart from God (Romans 3:10). [9] All glory belongs to God in the saving work of Jesus Christ.


----------------------------
[7] We have noted that Paul’s differences with the Judaizers centers on what Paul calls the “works of the law” (Gal. 2:16; 3:10). Paul denies that one is “justified by works of the law,” but affirms that one is justified “through faith in Christ Jesus” (2:16). Protestant interpreters have historically taken these words to mean that a person is declared righteous solely on the basis of the imputed righteousness of Christ, received through faith. A person is not accounted righteous on the basis of anything that he or she has done, is doing, or will do
See: Michael J. Kruger et al., A Biblical-Theological Introduction to the New Testament (Wheaton, Illinois: Crossway, 2016), 252.
[8] “charis is ‘grace, favor’-the acceptance of and goodness towards those who cannot earn or do not deserve such gain.”
See: William D. Mounce, Mounce’s Complete Expository Dictionary of Old and New Testament Words (Grand Rapids, Michigan: Zondervan, 2006), 303-304.
[9] Could he have spoken more clearly than in contending thus: that there is no righteousness of faith except where there are no works for which a reward is due? And then that faith is reckoned as righteousness only where righteousness is bestowed through a grace not owed?
See: Calvin, Institutes of the Christian Religion 1, 750-751.

	Jesus talks about the way one is declared righteous before God. In Luke 18:9-14, Jesus tells a parable to “to some who trusted in themselves that they were righteous, and treated others with contempt” about a Pharisee who boasted in his works, thanking God that he was not like other men, extortioners, unjust, adulterers, or even like this tax collector” and a tax collector “standing far off, would not even lift up his eyes to heaven, but beat his breast, saying, ‘God, be merciful to me, a sinner!’.” Jesus said in verse 14
I tell you, this man went down to his house justified, rather than the other. For everyone who exalts himself will be humbled, but the one who humbles himself will be exalted.”
In this passage, there are two types of people Jesus describes, a Pharisee and a tax collector. The Pharisee trusted in himself for his righteousness by his works. Even though he had a form of faith in God, since he prays, he tried to boast in his own works to God and was not justified. The tax collector, acknowledged his sin to God, repented, and sought mercy from God. The tax collector did not boast in his works, but had faith. He was humble, seeing himself as a sinner and not boastful like the Pharisee who sought righteousness by works. Jesus said in verse 14:
“14I tell you, this man went down to his house justified, rather than the other. For everyone who exalts himself will be humbled, but the one who humbles himself will be exalted.”
 In this passage we see justification being done not by works, but by faith which supports Pauline justification by faith. Therefore, one sees that the idea of justification by works does not align with the gospel as Jesus is pointing to justification by faith, not works. Jesus told this parable to those who “trusted in themselves that they were righteous, and treated others with contempt” (Luke 18:9), where no justification occurs, since it is one’s own righteousness and not Christ’s. If righteousness were by works, like that of the Pharisee, then grace would no longer be grace (Romans 11:6). Apostle Paul aligns with this teaching of justification by faith where in Ephesians 2:8-9 apostle Paul writes:
8 For by grace you have been saved through faith. And this is not your own doing; it is the gift of God, 9 not a result of works, so that no one may boast.
If one tries to boast in his works, that may be seen as justification through one’s works which results in no justification before God.
	Galatians 2:15-21 explains the Pauline doctrine of justification by faith. These verses show that a person is not justified by works of the law, but by faith in Jesus Christ. The works of the law cannot justify a person as only faith in Jesus Christ can justify a person.
Verse 16 says
16yet we know that a person is not justified by works of the law but through faith in Jesus Christ, so we also have believed in Christ Jesus, in order to be justified by faith in Christ and not by works of the law, because by works of the law no one will be justified.
Here apostle Paul teaches that a person is not justified by works of the law, but through faith in Jesus Christ. He says that works of the law cannot justify a person. In verse 21, he says
21I do not nullify the grace of God, for if righteousness were through the law, then Christ died for no purpose.
In this verse it says, “If righteousness were through the law, then Christ died for no purpose”; this shows that if one tries to achieve righteousness through the law, then grace would be nullified, since it would be an earned salvation and one does not need Jesus to save one from one’s sins, which would have no purpose for Christ dying for the sins of the world. Grace means favor “towards those who cannot earn or do not deserve such gain” and if one tries to earn favor through works, then it would no longer be grace. In addition, it is impossible to uphold the entire law, since one sin makes one guilty of breaking all the laws (James 2:10). [10] Romans 3:23 says,
23 for all have sinned and fall short of the glory of God.


-------------------------------
[8] “charis is ‘grace, favor’-the acceptance of and goodness towards those who cannot earn or do not deserve such gain.”
See: William D. Mounce, Mounce’s Complete Expository Dictionary of Old and New Testament Words (Grand Rapids, Michigan: Zondervan, 2006), 303-304.
[9] Could he have spoken more clearly than in contending thus: that there is no righteousness of faith except where there are no works for which a reward is due? And then that faith is reckoned as righteousness only where righteousness is bestowed through a grace not owed?
See: Calvin, Institutes of the Christian Religion 1, 750-751.
[10] William D. Mounce, Mounce’s Complete Expository Dictionary of Old and New Testament, 303-304.


Thus, Jesus came to save the world from their sins, being the Lamb of God who takes away the sins of the world (John 1:29), that through faith in what Jesus did, one could be saved as it says in Romans 4:22-25 regarding Abraham:
22 That is why his faith was “counted to him as righteousness.” 23 But the words “it was counted to him” were not written for his sake alone, 24 but for ours also. It will be counted to us who believe in him who raised from the dead Jesus our Lord, 25 who was delivered up for our trespasses and raised for our justification.
Faith in Jesus Christ is counted as righteousness where one is imputed with the righteousness of God where Christ becomes the righteousness of the faithful as in Jeremiah 23:6 it says, “The LORD is our righteousness.” [11] Thus, the way one becomes justified is through faith in Jesus Christ, that is through believing that he took the punishment for sins and pardoned one’s iniquities, which is to be received through grace through faith (Ephesians 2:8-9).
	Having been justified by faith in Jesus Christ, we live by faith in the Son of God who loved us and died for us. Verse 20 says,
20I have been crucified with Christ. It is no longer I who live, but Christ who lives in me. And the life I now live in the flesh I live by faith in the Son of God, who loved me and gave himself for me.
Martin Luther outlines the salvation of a Christian and his walk with God is through faith where Christian liberty is found in faith which keeps us from living in sin and makes the law unnecessary in the salvation of a Christian, where by grace, faith justifies the Christian. [12]

------------------------------
[11] We have noted that Paul’s differences with the Judaizers centers on what Paul calls the “works of the law” (Gal. 2:16; 3:10). Paul denies that one is “justified by works of the law,” but affirms that one is justified “through faith in Christ Jesus” (2:16). Protestant interpreters have historically taken these words to mean that a person is declared righteous solely on the basis of the imputed righteousness of Christ, received through faith. A person is not accounted righteous on the basis of anything that he or she has done, is doing, or will do
See: Michael J. Kruger et al., A Biblical-Theological Introduction to the New Testament, 252.
 
[12] It is clear, then, that a Christian has all that he needs in faith and needs no works to justify him; and if he has no need of works, he has no need of the law; and if he has no need of the law, surely he is free from the law. It is true that “the law is not laid down for the just” [1 Tim. 1:9]. This is that Christian liberty, our faith, which does not induce us to live in idleness or wickedness but makes the law and works unnecessary for any man’s righteousness and salvation.
See: Martin Luther, Christian Liberty, 12.


Justification by faith is also reinforced in Romans 3:21-28  
The Righteousness of God through Faith
21 But now the righteousness of God has been manifested apart from the law, although the Law and the Prophets bear witness to it-22 the righteousness of God through faith in Jesus Christ for all who believe. For there is no distinction: 23 for all have sinned and fall short of the glory of God, 24 and are justified by his grace as a gift, through the redemption that is in Christ Jesus, 25 whom God put forward as a propitiation by his blood, to be received by faith. This was to show God’s righteousness, because in his divine forbearance he had passed over former sins. 26 It was to show his righteousness at the present time, so that he might be just and the justifier of the one who has faith in Jesus.
27 Then what becomes of our boasting? It is excluded. By what kind of law? By a law of works? No, but by the law of faith. 28 For we hold that one is justified by faith apart from works of the law.
The righteousness of God in which saints receive, is found apart from keeping the law, and is found through faith in Jesus Christ, where God provided a gift of grace through his Son, Jesus Christ. It is not an earned salvation but a free gift of salvation to be received by faith where one’s sin has been forgiven. One can see clearly where apostle Paul stands in verse 28, “For we hold that one is justified by faith apart from works of the law.” Thus, the doctrine of justification by faith is shown here in verse 28 where one is justified by faith and not by works.
James is explained in the context of Pauline justification by faith. James 2:24 gives further explanation on what true faith looks like and is considered in Romans 3:28.
Romans 3:28:
For we hold that one is justified by faith apart from works of the law.
 
James 2:24:
“You perceive that as a result of works a person is declared righteous, not as a result of faith alone.”
Apostle Paul and James are describing justification by true faith where one naturally produces works without the intention to be justified by them. These works serve as evidence for faith. Faith without any works results in questioning whether one has true faith, since believing in Jesus Christ results in becoming a new creation (2 Corinthians 5:17). These two verses complement each other in that one is justified by faith alone where works provide evidence for faith, and are not to justify.[13] A “result of works” may be the final result of what one’s faith looks like, being compared to a tree as described by Jesus, “A tree is known by its fruits” (Matthew 7:16-20). Apostle James describes what true faith looks like in James 2, “Faith Without Works is Dead”, where true faith is accompanied with works. Works coming from faith show evidence of faith where faith drives works. If works were done as a means to justify then those would be considered “works of the law” as apostle Paul mentions in Galatians 2:16, and not the works that apostle James is describing as evidence for faith.[14] Apostle James taught that faith is accompanied with works, since faith without any works is a dead faith (James 2:17). Apostle Paul taught that faith does not need “works of the law” which have the intention as a means to justify.

--------------------------
[13] Now the reader sees how fairly the Sophists today cavil against our doctrine when we say that man is justified by faith alone [Rom. 3:28]. They dare not deny that man is justified by faith because it recurs so often in Scripture. But since the word “alone” is nowhere expressed, they do not allow this addition to be made. Is it so? But what will they reply to these words of Paul where he contends that righteousness cannot be of faith unless it be free [Rom. 4:2 ff.]? How will a free gift agree with works? With what chicaneries will they elude what he says in another passage, that God’s righteousness is revealed in the gospel [Rom. 1:17]? If righteousness is revealed in the gospel, surely no mutilated or half righteousness but a full and perfect righteousness is contained there. The law therefore has no place in it. Not only by a false but by an obviously ridiculous shift they insist upon excluding this adjective. Does not he who takes everything from works firmly enough ascribe everything to faith alone? What, I pray, do these expressions mean: “His righteousness has been manifested apart from the law” [Rom. 3:21]; and “Man is freely justified” [Rom. 3:24]; and, “Apart from the works of the law” [Rom. 3:28]?
See: Calvin, Institutes of the Christian Religion 1, 748-749.
 
[14] We have noted that Paul’s differences with the Judaizers centers on what Paul calls the “works of the law” (Gal. 2:16; 3:10). Paul denies that one is “justified by works of the law,” but affirms that one is justified “through faith in Christ Jesus” (2:16). Protestant interpreters have historically taken these words to mean that a person is declared righteous solely on the basis of the imputed righteousness of Christ, received through faith. A person is not accounted righteous on the basis of anything that he or she has done, is doing, or will do
See: Michael J. Kruger et al., A Biblical-Theological Introduction to the New Testament , 252.

	Lenski quotes Luther, who is talking about faith that produces works that are not done to justify, since “It does not even ask whether good works are to be done, but before one asks it has done them, and is ever doing”, but are done out of faith.[15] These are works coming from faith that shows evidence for faith, since they do not come with an intention to justify, but out of faith in Jesus Christ, and not as works of the law that Paul describes in Galatians 2:16 as a means of justification. Instead of works of the law, faith is what justifies. [16],[17] However, works coming from faith show evidence to show that one has faith, which supports what apostle James says regarding “faith without works is dead” (James 2).
	Two types of people are considered. The first one is where Apostle Paul taught justification by faith and was dealing with Judaizers who claimed to be righteous by their works of the law without true faith in Jesus Christ, seeking to contribute to their salvation by works of the law.[18] The second is where apostle James is talking about people who claim they have faith but have no fruit to show it, thus teaching faith without works is dead (James 2:17). Thus, there are two types of works being shown here, works coming from faith as apostle James describes as evidence for faith, while the works of the law as Paul describes which does not bring justification. Works of the law that Paul describes, is not by faith since one is trying to be saved by their works as a means to earn salvation and not by grace through faith (Ephesians 2:8-9). Faith is the driving force in justification and is behind works coming from faith for true salvation in Jesus Christ where works are not done out of a requirement to be saved, but, as Lenski quotes Luther, “It does not even ask whether good works are to be done, but before one asks it has done them, and is ever doing.” [19] Works coming from faith are done naturally without the intention to justify.

--------------------
[15] One of the strange phenomena is the fact that Luther, who had so little use for James, nevertheless writes in his famous preface to Paul’s Romans as he might have written in a preface to apostle James: “Oh it is a living, active, energetic, mighty thing, this faith, so that it is impossible that it should not work what is good without intermission. It does not even ask whether good works are to be done, but before one asks it has done them, and is ever doing. But he who does not do such works is a man without faith, is fumbling and looking about him for faith and good works, and knows neither the one nor the other yet chatters and babbles many words about both.” If this is not the voice of apostle James, whose is it-even down to the chatter and babble (1:19)?
See: Lenski, Interpretation of Hebrews James (Minneapolis, Minnesota: Augsburg Publishing House, 1961), 578.
 
[16] Because faith is imputed as righteousness, righteousness is therefore not the reward of works but is given unearned [Rom. 4:4-5]. Because we are justified by faith, our boasting is cut off [Rom. 3:27 p.]. “If a law had been given that could make alive, then righteousness would indeed be by the law. But God consigned all things to sin that the promise might be given to those who believe.” ]Gal. 3:21-22 p.]
See: Calvin, Institutes of the Christian Religion 1, (Philadelphia, PA: The Westminster Press, 1960), 749.
 
[17] It is clear, then, that a Christian has all that he needs in faith and needs no works to justify him; and if he has no need of works, he has no need of the law; and if he has no need of the law, surely he is free from the law. It is true that “the law is not laid down for the just” [1 Tim. 1:9]. This is that Christian liberty, our faith, which does not induce us to live in idleness or wickedness but makes the law and works unnecessary for any man’s righteousness and salvation.
See: Martin Luther, Christian Liberty, 12.
 
[18] When in Rom. 3:28 Paul writes… “without works of law,” these works are entirely different from the works of faith of which apostle James speaks. Whatever lies at their root, whether it is a dead faith or not, their very name “works of law” show that they have nothing to do with the gospel, which produces true faith and true works of faith. To rely on “works of law” in order to procure God’s favorable verdict, is to repudiate Christ and true faith in him. This is the truth that works of law and Judaizers compelled Paul to set forth at length. Apostle James has people to contend with who imagine that they are able to retain God’s favorable verdict without the works of faith, who fail to see that they would then have only a dead faith.
See: Lenski, Interpretation of Hebrews James, 596.
 
[19] Lenski: second time quote page 578 One of the strange phenomena is the fact that Luther, who had so little use for James, nevertheless writes in his famous preface to Paul’s Romans as he might have written in a preface to apostle James: “Oh it is a living, active, energetic, mighty thing, this faith, so that it is impossible that it should not work what is good without intermission. It does not even ask whether good works are to be done, but before one asks it has done them, and is ever doing. But he who does not do such works is a man without faith, is fumbling and looking about him for faith and good works, and knows neither the one nor the other yet chatters and babbles many words about both.” If this is not the voice of apostle James, whose is it-even down to the chatter and babble (1:19)?


	The intention behind works is what distinguishes between works of the law that apostle Paul is describing, and works that apostle James is describing. If the intention is to be saved by works, then that is a work of the law which Paul is describing. If the intention is to do good works out of faith, then that is what apostle James is describing, which shows that one has true faith since it is like a good tree bearing good fruit. Lenski quotes Jesus, “A tree is known by its fruits” (Matthew 7:16-20).[20] The tree could represent one’s faith in Jesus Christ, and how a healthy fruit tree bears good fruit of works. If a fruit tree doesn’t bear fruit, then it is not a true fruit tree, since it does not bear fruit. One could see a tree of faith bearing the fruit of good works as a true tree of faith while a tree without any fruit of good works is not a real tree of faith.
	One could imagine the left being described as evading good works and having a dead faith, while the right being as relying on the law without Christ and not having true faith in him. Apostle James is describing the left, while Paul is describing the right.[21] True faith would be where one has faith in Christ in that one is saved by grace through faith and not works, lest one should boast (Ephesians 2:8-9) and have works coming from faith to show as evidence that one has faith and follows Christ. Works do not justify (Galatians 2:16), but show supporting evidence to show that one has faith in which faith justifies. Real faith has naturally occurring works, without the intention to be saved by them, while fake faith is either not having any good works to show one has faith or relies on works to justify oneself where grace would no longer be grace (Romans 11:6).
	Pauline justification by faith has its roots throughout Scripture in the Old and New Testaments. Martin Luther expounded upon it, where he discovered the meaning of “the righteous shall live by faith” being “He who through faith is righteous shall live”. [22] He also taught that true faith produces works that come naturally, and are not forced like works of the law that Judaizers were doing. He also taught sola fide, faith alone and was expounded with its three components: (1) forensic, not formative, (2) justification is distinct from sanctification and (3) where the imputed righteousness of Christ is the basis for justification. Jesus taught in Luke 18:9-14, about those who try to be justified by their works and put others down. He taught that it was the tax collector who was justified, and not the Pharisee “who trusted in themselves that they were righteous, and treated others with contempt” (Luke 18:9). Jesus taught that the tax collector who “standing far off, would not even lift up his eyes to heaven, but beat his breast, saying, ‘God, be merciful to me, a sinner!’” was justified in verse 14:
I tell you, this man went down to his house justified, rather than the other. For everyone who exalts himself will be humbled, but the one who humbles himself will be exalted.”
If one tries to boast in his works, then one’s soul would be puffed up, as described in Habakuk 2:4, where instead, the “righteous shall live by faith.” In the OT, there are references to justification by faith in Habakkuk 2:4, “the righteous shall live by faith” and in Jeremiah 23:6, “The LORD is our righteousness.” These verses show that through faith in Jesus Christ, one is imputed with his righteousness, providing justification by the means of grace through faith (Ephesians 2:8-9). Apostle Paul supports this in Galatians 2:15-21, which explains justification by faith as being of faith and not works. Works cannot justify as “a person is not justified by works of the law but through faith in Jesus Christ” (Galatians 2:16). This is also supported in Romans 3:28, “For we hold that one is justified by faith apart from works of the law.” True faith in Jesus Christ is explained in James 2, where faith without works is dead. The left is described by apostle James as being a fake faith without any works to show as evidence that one has faith. The right, described by apostle Paul, is of a fake faith that relies on works of the law to be saved. Jesus also taught, “A tree is known by its fruits” (Matthew 7:16-20). This shows that by one’s fruit, a tree can be identified. Pauline justification by faith finds its roots in the Old Testament and New Testament.
 
 
------------------------------
[20] See: Lenski, Interpretation of Hebrews James, 576.
[21] “The readers of James were inclined to evade good works and to rely on a dead faith; those of Paul to rely on works of law without Christ and true faith in him.”
See: Lenski, Interpretation of Hebrews James, 590.
[22] At last, by the mercy of God, meditating day and night, I gave heed to the context of the words, namely, “In it the righteousness of God is revealed, as it is written, ‘He who through faith is righteous shall live.’” . . . And this is the meaning: the righteousness of God is revealed by the gospel, namely, the passive righteousness with which [the] merciful God justifies us by faith, as it is written, “He who through faith is righteous shall live.”
See: “Here We Stand”, desiringgod.org, https://www.desiringgod.org/articles/here-he-stood.
 
 
 
 
 
 
Bibliography

Luther, Martin. Christian Liberty, Philadelphia, PA: Fortress Press, 1957.
Busenitz, Nathan, “THE SUBSTANCE OF SOLA FIDE: JUSTIFICATION DEFENDED FROM SCRIPTURE IN THE WRITINGS OF THE REFORMERS,” The Master's Seminary Journal 32 no 1 (2021): 77-92.
Lenski. Interpretation of Hebrews James, Minneapolis, Minnesota: Augsburg Publishing House, 1961.
Calvin. Institutes of the Christian Religion 1, Philadelphia, PA: The Westminster Press, 1960.
“Luther in 1520: Justification by Faith Alone”, https://journal.rts.edu, https://journal.rts.edu/article/luther-in-1520-justification-by-faith-alone/
Kruger, Michael J., William B. Barcley, Robert J. Cara, Benjamin Gladd, Charles E. Hill, Reggie M. Kidd, Simon J. Kistemaker, Bruce A. Lowe, and Guy Prentiss Wateres. A Biblical-Theological Introduction to the New Testament. Wheaton, Illinois: Crossway, 2016, 252.
Mounce, William D.. Mounce’s Complete Expository Dictionary of Old and New Testament Words, Grand Rapids, Michigan: Zondervan, 2006.

