Justified By Faith
Luke 18:9-14
The Pharisee and the Tax Collector
9 He also told this parable to some who trusted in themselves that they were righteous, and treated others with contempt: 10 “Two men went up into the temple to pray, one a Pharisee and the other a tax collector. 11 The Pharisee, standing by himself, prayed thus: ‘God, I thank you that I am not like other men, extortioners, unjust, adulterers, or even like this tax collector. 12 I fast twice a week; I give tithes of all that I get.’ 13 But the tax collector, standing far off, would not even lift up his eyes to heaven, but beat his breast, saying, ‘God, be merciful to me, a sinner!’ 14 I tell you, this man went down to his house justified rather than the other. For everyone who exalts himself will be humbled, but the one who humbles himself will be exalted.”
     Jesus talks about the way one is declared righteous before God. In this passage, there are two types of people Jesus describes, a Pharisee and a tax collector. The Pharisee trusted in himself for his righteousness by his works. Even though he had a form of faith in God, since he prays, he tried to boast in his own works to God and was not justified which can be seen as justification by faith and works. The tax collector, acknowledged his sin to God, repented, and sought mercy from God. The tax collector did not boast in his works, but had faith. He was humble, seeing himself as a sinner and not boastful like the Pharisee who sought righteousness by works. Jesus said in V14 “14I tell you, this man went down to his house justified, rather than the other. For everyone who exalts himself will be humbled, but the one who humbles himself will be exalted”. In this passage we see justification being done not by works, but by faith. In the case of the Pharisee, he had both faith and works; a form of faith, since he was praying to God, and works since he did many works such as in V11-12 
11 The Pharisee, standing by himself, prayed thus: ‘God, I thank you that I am not like other men, extortioners, unjust, adulterers, or even like this tax collector. 12 I fast twice a week; I give tithes of all that I get.’
So we see that the idea of justification by faith and works does not make much sense as Jesus is pointing to justification by faith, not works. Apostle Paul aligns with this teaching in justification by faith where in Ephesians 2:8-9 apostle Paul writes:
8 For by grace you have been saved through faith. And this is not your own doing; it is the gift of God, 9 not a result of works, so that no one may boast.
This is what Jesus was describing where if one boast in his works while having faith, he may be seen as a Pharisee who tried to justify himself to God through his works and faith which results in no justification before God. One is justified through faith in Jesus Christ, where “faith is counted as righteousness” as Abraham believed in God and so we too can receive the blessing where our faith is counted as righteousness (Romans 4:22-25). And Romans 3:27-28 says,
27 Then what becomes of our boasting? It is excluded. By what kind of law? By a law of works? No, but by the law of faith. 28 For we hold that one is justified by faith apart from works of the law.	
Here apostle Paul outlines clearly that one is justified by faith apart from works of the law.
     Having been justified by faith alone and not by works, we can see what Christian Liberty looks like in what Martin Luther said:
It is clear, then, that a Christian has all that he needs in faith and needs no works to justify him; and if he has no need of works, he has no need of the law; and if he has no need of the law, surely he is free from the law. It is true that “the law is not laid down for the just” [1 Tim. 1:9]. This is that Christian liberty, our faith, which does not induce us to live in idleness or wickedness but makes the law and works unnecessary for any man’s righteousness and salvation.
Being made righteous by faith, we also live by faith in the Son of God who loved us and died for us. Galatians 2:20-21 says
20I have been crucified with Christ. It is no longer I who live, but Christ who lives in me. And the life I now live in the flesh I live by faith in the Son of God, who loved me and gave himself for me. 21I do not nullify the grace of God, for if righteousness were through the law, then Christ died for no purpose.
The “life I now live in the flesh I live by faith in the Son of God, who loved me and gave himself for me.” Let us live by faith in what Jesus has done for us, living transformed lives in that the Holy Spirit is with us and is our guarantee. Let us walk by faith and not by sight.
     Jesus saved us from our sins on the cross, bearing the penalty for the multitude of sins we have committed and rose again on the third day ascending into heaven at the right hand of God the Father Almighty who will judge the living and the dead. He paid it all for you, that you would not have to spend an eternity of hell but live with Him in heaven forever. He loved you and saved you that you would believe in what He did to rescue you from your sins and the wrath of God for the just repayment of sins. We are saved by grace through faith and not by works lest we should boast, having His blood wash over our sins, making us white as snow. We cannot contribute in anyway to our salvation, lest we become like a Pharisee who tried to justify himself through his works, but through faith alone, we are justified before God, in that we are the tax collector, wretched sinners, in need of God’s mercy and grace. Jesus loved you to the point of dying for you, and there is no greater love than that that one should die for his friends (John 15:13). John 3:16 says,
16 “For God so loved the world, that he gave his only Son, that whoever believes in him should not perish but have eternal life.
Let us believe in Jesus and have faith and walk in faith trusting in our Saviour King who loved us and died for us, bearing our guilt on the cross that on the day of judgement we will not be condemned. Jesus loves you!!!
