Justified by Faith
Galatians 2:16
16yet we know that a person is not justified by works of the law but through faith in Jesus Christ, so we also have believed in Christ Jesus, in order to be justified by faith in Christ and not by works of the law, because by works of the law no one will be justified.

	Regarding righteousness, John Piper quotes Martin Luther in the following:
At last, by the mercy of God, meditating day and night, I gave heed to the context of the words, namely, “In it the righteousness of God is revealed, as it is written, ‘He who through faith is righteous shall live.’” . . . And this is the meaning: the righteousness of God is revealed by the gospel, namely, the passive righteousness with which [the] merciful God justifies us by faith, as it is written, “He who through faith is righteous shall live.”

Jesus becomes our righteousness through faith, where His righteousness is imputed unto us, and through faith all our sins are made white as snow. Through God’s mercy and free gift of grace, we are justified by faith. It is not of our doing, since that would mean that you did something to contribute to your salvation. No, it is nothing of our own, but it is all the saving work of Jesus Christ to rescue you from your sins and make you righteous before Him through faith. 
	In Galatians 2:16 it says, 
16yet we know that a person is not justified by works of the law but through faith in Jesus Christ

Our works could never justify us, because if it were so, then grace would no longer be grace. Romans 11:6 says,
6But if it is by grace, it is no longer on the basis of works; otherwise grace would no longer be grace.

Grace means unmerited favor, that we did nothing to deserve it. If we tried to earn our justification then that would mean it was a merited favor, which contradicts the definition of grace. Thus if we try to do works to justify ourselves before God, then grace would no longer be grace. Works of the law are works with the intention to justify oneself by one’s works. If we say to God that I did something good in my life and that I deserve to go to heaven, then that is boasting in one’s self and does not result in justification. In Luke 18:9-14: Jesus tells a parable to “to some who trusted in themselves that they were righteous, and treated others with contempt” about a Pharisee who boasted in his works, thanking God that he was not like other men, extortioners, unjust, adulterers, or even like this tax collector” and a tax collector “standing far off, would not even lift up his eyes to heaven, but beat his breast, saying, ‘God, be merciful to me, a sinner!’.” Jesus said in verse 14 
I tell you, this man went down to his house justified, rather than the other. For everyone who exalts himself will be humbled, but the one who humbles himself will be exalted.”
Our works could never make us righteous before God, it is all in the saving power of Jesus Christ and His work on the cross that makes us righteous through faith. All glory belongs to God in what He did for the world. If one boasted in one’s works, then glory is given to that person who claims righteousness by works. How can that be? Romans 3:21-26 says,

21 But now apart from the law the righteousness of God has been made known, to which the Law and the Prophets testify. 22 This righteousness is given through faith in[h] Jesus Christ to all who believe. There is no difference between Jew and Gentile, 23 for all have sinned and fall short of the glory of God, 24 and all are justified freely by his grace through the redemption that came by Christ Jesus. 25 God presented Christ as a sacrifice of atonement,[i] through the shedding of his blood—to be received by faith. He did this to demonstrate his righteousness, because in his forbearance he had left the sins committed beforehand unpunished— 26 he did it to demonstrate his righteousness at the present time, so as to be just and the one who justifies those who have faith in Jesus.

We have all sinned and fall short of the glory of God, and by faith are justified by His grace through Jesus Christ. To God be the glory alone. 
John Calvin writes:
Now the reader sees how fairly the Sophists today cavil against our doctrine when we say that man is justified by faith alone [Rom. 3:28]. They dare not deny that man is justified by faith because it recurs so often in Scripture. But since the word “alone” is nowhere expressed, they do not allow this addition to be made. Is it so? But what will they reply to these words of Paul where he contends that righteousness cannot be of faith unless it be free [Rom. 4:2 ff.]? How will a free gift agree with works? With what chicaneries will they elude what he says in another passage, that God’s righteousness is revealed in the gospel [Rom. 1:17]? If righteousness is revealed in the gospel, surely no mutilated or half righteousness but a full and perfect righteousness is contained there. The law therefore has no place in it. Not only by a false but by an obviously ridiculous shift they insist upon excluding this adjective. Does not he who takes everything from works firmly enough ascribe everything to faith alone? What, I pray, do these expressions mean: “His righteousness has been manifested apart from the law” [Rom. 3:21]; and “Man is freely justified” [Rom. 3:24]; and, “Apart from the works of the law” [Rom. 3:28]?
See: Calvin, Institutes of the Christian Religion 1, 748-749.

	The weight of all our sin, the punishment of all our iniquities, the wrath of God the Father upon His Son that was meant for all of us, divine justice satisfied, was all upon Christ’s shoulders. Jesus held the weight of the cross, and hung for our sins. The Son of God who came down from heaven took on the humiliation for us and overcame it, and went through hell for us. 21 God made him who had no sin to be sin[b] for us, so that in him we might become the righteousness of God (2 Corinthians 5:21). Jesus satisfied divine justice for us all, that all our sins have been atoned for and paid in full by the cross. Jesus rose again from the dead on the third day and ascended to the right hand of God the Father Almighty who will judge the living and the dead. Jesus overcame sin, satan, and death and is our divine warrior who is guarding us in our everyday lives. Jesus deserves all glory and honor and praise for what He has done for us, that by His grace and mercy we can be righteous before God through faith. 

1Not to us, Lord, not to us
    but to your name be the glory,
    because of your love and faithfulness.
Psalm 115

Galatians 2:16 says
16yet we know that a person is not justified by works of the law but through faith in Jesus Christ,
Let us remember that we are justified by faith alone and not by works of the law. Sola deo gloria (Glory to God alone). Jesus loves you!!!

Some quotes for your consideration:
At last, by the mercy of God, meditating day and night, I gave heed to the context of the words, namely, “In it the righteousness of God is revealed, as it is written, ‘He who through faith is righteous shall live.’” . . . And this is the meaning: the righteousness of God is revealed by the gospel, namely, the passive righteousness with which [the] merciful God justifies us by faith, as it is written, “He who through faith is righteous shall live.”
See: “Here We Stand”, desiringgod.org, https://www.desiringgod.org/articles/here-he-stood.

No other work makes a Christian. Thus when the Jews asked Christ, as related in John 6 [:28], what they must do “to be doing the work of God,” he brushed aside the multitude of works which he saw they did in great profusion and suggested one work, saying, “This is the work of God, that you believe in him whom he has sent” [John 6:29]; “for on him has God the Father set his seal” [John 6:27].
See: Martin Luther, Christian Liberty (Philadelphia, PA: Fortress Press, 1957), 10.

This is as though he said, “Faith, which is a small and perfect fulfilment of the law, will fill believers with so great a righteousness that they need nothing more to become righteous.” So Paul says, Rom. 10 [:10], “For man believes with his heart and so is justified.”
See: Martin Luther, Christian Liberty, 10-11.

One of the strange phenomena is the fact that Luther, who had so little use for James, nevertheless writes in his famous preface to Paul’s Romans as he might have written in a preface to apostle James: “Oh it is a living, active, energetic, mighty thing, this faith, so that it is impossible that it should not work what is good without intermission. It does not even ask whether good works are to be done, but before one asks it has done them, and is ever doing. But he who does not do such works is a man without faith, is fumbling and looking about him for faith and good works, and knows neither the one nor the other yet chatters and babbles many words about both.” If this is not the voice of apostle James, whose is it-even down to the chatter and babble (1:19)?
See: Lenski, Interpretation of Hebrews James (Minneapolis, Minnesota: Augsburg Publishing House, 1961), 578.

Because faith is imputed as righteousness, righteousness is therefore not the reward of works but is given unearned [Rom. 4:4-5]. Because we are justified by faith, our boasting is cut off [Rom. 3:27 p.]. “If a law had been given that could make alive, then righteousness would indeed be by the law. But God consigned all things to sin that the promise might be given to those who believe.” ]Gal. 3:21-22 p.]
See: Calvin, Institutes of the Christian Religion 1, (Philadelphia, PA: The Westminster Press, 1960), 749.

We have noted that Paul’s differences with the Judaizers centers on what Paul calls the “works of the law” (Gal. 2:16; 3:10). Paul denies that one is “justified by works of the law,” but affirms that one is justified “through faith in Christ Jesus” (2:16). Protestant interpreters have historically taken these words to mean that a person is declared righteous solely on the basis of the imputed righteousness of Christ, received through faith. A person is not accounted righteous on the basis of anything that he or she has done, is doing, or will do
See: Michael J. Kruger et al., A Biblical-Theological Introduction to the New Testament (Wheaton, Illinois: Crossway, 2016), 252.

[Rom. 3:27 p.]. “If a law had been given that could make alive, then righteousness would indeed be by the law. But God consigned all things to sin that the promise might be given to those who believe.” ]Gal. 3:21-22 p.]
See: Calvin, Institutes of the Christian Religion 1, (Philadelphia, PA: The Westminster Press, 1960), 749.

Now the reader sees how fairly the Sophists today cavil against our doctrine when we say that man is justified by faith alone [Rom. 3:28]. They dare not deny that man is justified by faith because it recurs so often in Scripture. But since the word “alone” is nowhere expressed, they do not allow this addition to be made. Is it so? But what will they reply to these words of Paul where he contends that righteousness cannot be of faith unless it be free [Rom. 4:2 ff.]? How will a free gift agree with works? With what chicaneries will they elude what he says in another passage, that God’s righteousness is revealed in the gospel [Rom. 1:17]? If righteousness is revealed in the gospel, surely no mutilated or half righteousness but a full and perfect righteousness is contained there. The law therefore has no place in it. Not only by a false but by an obviously ridiculous shift they insist upon excluding this adjective. Does not he who takes everything from works firmly enough ascribe everything to faith alone? What, I pray, do these expressions mean: “His righteousness has been manifested apart from the law” [Rom. 3:21]; and “Man is freely justified” [Rom. 3:24]; and, “Apart from the works of the law” [Rom. 3:28]?
See: Calvin, Institutes of the Christian Religion 1, 748-749.

