Knowing God Through Trials
Philippians 3:7-11
7 But whatever gain I had, I counted as loss for the sake of Christ. 8 Indeed, I count everything as loss because of the surpassing worth of knowing Christ Jesus my Lord. For his sake I have suffered the loss of all things and count them as rubbish, in order that I may gain Christ 9 and be found in him, not having a righteousness of my own that comes from the law, but that which comes through faith in Christ, the righteousness from God that depends on faith- 10 that I may know him and the power of his resurrection, and may share his sufferings, becoming like him in his death, 11 that by any means possible I may attain the resurrection from the dead.
 
In the movie, Pursuit of Happiness, Will Smith acts as a poor man who has to barely scrape by to make ends meet and take care of his son. He works as a traveling salesman and meets hardship and troubles along the way and one can see the hope he has in his struggles to make it through. He eventually impresses a boss and gets a new job from solving a rubix cube interview. Apostle Paul experienced the loss of all things, being beaten, stoned, made to fight in the Coliseum against wild animals, shipwrecked, and persecuted. Yet from those lows, he was able to know God more than ever from his trials.
        	Verse 7-8 says:
 7 But whatever gain I had, I counted as loss for the sake of Christ. 8 Indeed, I count everything as loss because of the surpassing worth of knowing Christ Jesus my Lord. For his sake I have suffered the loss of all things and count them as rubbish, in order that I may gain Christ
Apostle Paul shows us the attitude we should have concerning what we have, that whatever gain one has is a loss for the sake of Christ. That doesn’t mean that we should throw everything away, but that we consider Christ as the most important part of our lives. Jesus said in Matthew 10:37-38:
Whoever loves father or mother more than me is not worthy of me, and whoever loves son or daughter more than me is not worthy of me. And whoever does not take his cross and follow me is not worthy of me. Whoever finds his life will lose it, and whoever loses his life for my sake will find it. “Whoever receives you receives me, and whoever receives me receives him who sent me.
Let Jesus be our number one in our lives, more than family, more than children, and we are to take up our cross and follow Jesus. More than the games you play, more than the food you eat, more than the entertainment you enjoy, let Jesus be your number one. He loves you and watches over you, and we can enjoy these things, but let us always think of Christ and give thanks that we can enjoy these things.
1 Corinthians 10:31
31 So, whether you eat or drink, or whatever you do, do all to the glory of God.
So let us put Christ first, in that we can enjoy what God has for us, giving thanks to God for all His benefits.
 
Verse 9 of the main text says,
9 and be found in him, not having a righteousness of my own that comes from the law, but that which comes through faith in Christ, the righteousness from God that depends on faith-
 
Through faith in Jesus Christ, we can be accounted righteous before God. In believing in what Jesus has done for us on the cross, being crucified for the sake of the world, descending into hell, raising up from the dead in His resurrection and ascending to the right hand of God the Father Almighty who will judge the living and the dead. In that one believes that Jesus Christ is Lord and believes that He was raised from the dead for our justification (Romans 4:25), you will be saved.
Romans 10:9
because, if you confess with your mouth that Jesus is Lord and believe in your heart that God raised him from the dead, you will be saved.



and in Romans 1:17,
17 For in it the righteousness of God is revealed from faith for faith,[a] as it is written, “The righteous shall live by faith.”
 
Ephesians 2:8-10
8 For by grace you have been saved through faith. And this is not your own doing; it is the gift of God, 9 not a result of works, so that no one may boast. 10 For we are his workmanship, created in Christ Jesus for good works, which God prepared beforehand, that we should walk in them.
 
Through faith we are accounted righteous, not by our works lest we should boast in our selves.
Verse 10 of the main text says,
10 that I may know him and the power of his resurrection, and may share his sufferings, becoming like him in his death, 11 that by any means possible I may attain the resurrection from the dead.
 
Apostle Paul considered it all as loss, and bore his cross for Jesus, wanting to go through sufferings. Normally one doesn’t want to go through sufferings, but we see here that apostle Paul wanted to, so that he could see the power of God in his life.
In 2 Corinthians 4:7-10 it says,
        	7 But we have this treasure in jars of clay, to show that the surpassing power belongs to God and not to us. 8 We are afflicted in every way, but not crushed; perplexed, but not driven to despair, 9 persecuted, but not forsaken; struck down, but not destroyed 10 always carrying in the body the death of Jesus so that the life of Jesus may also be manifested in our bodies.
This is our treasure, that in our suffering moments, God is there to manifest his life in us when we go through trials. Apostle Paul suffered so much for Jesus, yet he was fine not because of his own power, but by the power of God that upheld him through the trials he went through. Let us take this attitude when we go through trials and have faith, because God can make a way when there seems to be no way. Let us trust our Maker with our lives in whatever season we go through, knowing that we have eternal life with Jesus and his power works strongly within us.
 
        	Jesus is our most important part of our lives, let us make sure to put Him first over everything, and to give thanks in what we do and enjoy. Our righteousness comes by faith in the saving work of Jesus, not by our works lest we should think we can earn our salvation and boast in ourselves. Lastly, when we go through trials, let us remember that we have treasure in jars of clay to show the surpassing power belongs to God and not to us in whatever we go through, whether afflictions, trials, or problems in this life. Jesus is our righteousness, not by the law, but by faith, let us always remember that Jesus is our righteousness (Jeremiah 23:6) and wear His righteousness as our breastplate (Ephesians 6). Jesus loves you!!!

