Living Sacrifices
Romans 12:1-2
1I appeal to you therefore, brothers, by the mercies of God, to present your bodies as a living sacrifice, holy and acceptable to God, which is your spiritual worship. 2Do not be conformed to this world, but be transformed by the renewal of your mind, that by testing you may discern what is the will of God, what is good and acceptable and perfect.

Psalm 51:16-17 says,
16For you will not delight in sacrifice, or I would give it;
you will not be pleased with a burnt offering.
17The sacrifices of God are a broken spirit;
	a broken and contrite heart, O God, you will not despise.

Being broken is about being led to repentance and being open to God’s correction instead of being hardened. God is pleased by this humble repentance. God looks at the heart and knows all of our thoughts. Let us be humble and turn from our sins and be living sacrifices, holy and acceptable to God. 
 
Galatians 5:16-26 says,
Walking in the Spirit
16But I say, walk by the Spirit, and you will not gratify the desires of the flesh. 17For the desires of the flesh are against the Spirit, and the desires of the Spirit are against the flesh, for these are opposed to each other, to keep you from doing the things you want to do. 18But if you are led by the Spirit, you are not under the law. 19Now the works of the flesh are evident: sexual immorality, impurity, sensuality, 20idolatry, sorcery, enmity, strife, jealousy, fits of anger, rivalries, dissensions, divisions, 21 envy, drunkenness, orgies and things like these. I warn you, as I warned you before, that those who do such things will not inherit the kingdom of God. 22But the fruit of the Spirit is love, joy, peace, patience, kindness, goodness, faithfulness, 23gentleness, self-control; against such things there is no law. 24And those who belong to Christ Jesus have crucified the flesh with its passions and desires. 
	25If we live by the Spirit, let us also keep in step with the Spirit. 26Let us not become conceited, provoking one another, envying one another. 

Let us walk in the Spirit and not in the flesh, crucifying the desires of the flesh. If you need wisdom, pray to God for wisdom to stay away from the desires of the flesh. Ask God to help you walk in the Spirit and He will help you. Philippians 4:13 says,

13I can do all things through him who strengthens me.

 You can overcome with faith and prayer! You can do all things through Christ who strengthens you.

1 John 2:15 says, 
15 Do not love the world or the things in the world. If anyone loves the world, the love of the Father is not in him. 16For all that is in the world-the desires of the flesh and the desires of the eyes and pride of life-is not from the Father but is from the world. 17And the world is passing away along with its desires, but whoever does the will of God abides forever.

We are not to love the things in the world! The things in the world-the desires of the flesh, the desires of the eyes and the pride of life is not from God but the world and the world is passing away along with its desires. Jesus is coming back one day. Let us be prepared for His return and not be like the servants who say that He is delayed in His return. God is not pleased when you are in love with the world, but rather turn your affections towards Christ. John Piper says, “God is most glorified when we are most satisfied in Him.” So let us glorify God by being completely satisfied in Him. By reading His word, praying, spending time with Him, and loving one another. Let us be living sacrifices and have our affections towards Christ. 1 Corinthians 10:31 says,
31So, whether you eat or drink, or whatever you do, do all to the glory of God. 
So let us glorify God in all that we do, living as a living sacrifice to God, being in the world but not of it. Our time here is so short compared to the eternity we have in heaven!  
