Living Sacrifices
Mark 12:28-34
The Great Commandment
	28And one of the scribes came up and heard them disputing with one another, and seeing that he answered them well, asked him, “Which commandment is the most important of all? 29Jesus answered, “The most important is, ‘Hear O Israel: The Lord our God, the Lord is one. 30And you shall love the Lord your God with all your heart and with all your soul and with all your mind and with all your strength.’ 31The second is this: ‘You shall love your neighbor as yourself.’ There is no other commandment greater than these.”32And the scribe said to him, “You are right, Teacher. You have truly said that he is one, and there is no other besides him. 33And to love him with all the heart and with all the understanding and with all the strength, and to love one’s neighbor as oneself, is much more than all whole burnt offerings and sacrifices.” 34And when Jesus saw that he answered wisely, he said to him, “You are not far from the kingdom of God.” And after that no one dared to ask him any more questions.

The Israelites in the Old Testament times sacrificed sheep and doves to atone for the sin. This was done to be a symbol of what Christ would do when He came down to the earth to die for the sins of the world. However animal sacrifices could never take away sins. Hebrews 10:4 says 
4For it is impossible for the blood of bulls and goats to take away sins.
The scribe who asked Jesus of what the most important commandment is, understood what Jesus said, that to love God with all your heart, mind and soul and your neighbor as oneself. These two commandments were much more than sacrifices and burnt offerings.
Jesus taught in Matthew 5:23-24,
23So if you are offering your gift at the altar and there remember that your brother has something against you, 24leave your gift there before the altar and go. First be reconciled to your brother, and then come and offer your gift.
Let us love one another, forgiving one another and walking in love toward one another. Being reconciled with one another is more important that giving an offering to God. If God has forgiven us of our sins, which are many, let us in turn forgive one another as Christ has forgiven us. 
Living sacrifices are what we are to become. Romans 12:1-3 says,
1I appeal to you therefore, brothers, by the mercies of God, to present your bodies as a living sacrifice, holy and acceptable to God, which is your spiritual worship. 2Do not be conformed to this world, but be transformed by the renewal of your mind, that by testing you may discern what is the will of God, what is good and acceptable and perfect.
What does it mean to be a living sacrifice? It means to walk in the Spirit, living by faith in the Son of God and being holy, which means separate from uncleanliness. It means to not be conformed to the world but be transformed in the renewal of your mind through the reading of Scripture to understand the way God wants you to walk. I encourage you to have a daily devotion with the Lord in the morning and the evening. We need to make sure we are spiritually fed. Many of us may be starving spiritually, have you considered this? Being spiritually empty means to feed ourselves with the things of the world, which can never satisfy as it is just a sugar and not real food. So let us find joy in the Word of God immersing ourselves in the Word and feeding our souls with the bread of the Gospel. Jesus said, “Man shall not live by bread alone, but by every word that comes from the mouth of God” Matthew 4:4. By being a living sacrifice we worship God and follow His command to love Him with all your heart, soul and mind. God watches over you, let us always remember this and cares for you. Proverbs 15:3 says, 
3The eyes of the LORD are in every place, keeping watch on the evil and the good.
	The first commandment is to love the Lord your God with all your heart, soul and mind. In John 14:21 Jesus says,
21Whoever has my commandments and keeps them, he it is who love me. And he who loves me will be loved by my Father, and I will love him and manifest myself to him.” 
Let us remember these words that if we love Jesus we would keep His commandments. If you loved your family, wouldn’t you listen to them? Jesus loves you and shows you the way to walk, let us keep His words and show that we love Him. Jesus also commanded in John 13:34, 
34A new commandment I give to you, that you love one another: just as I have loved you, you also are to love one another. 35By this all people will know that you are my disciples, if you have love for one another. 
Let us obey Jesus out of our love for Him. Jesus loves you. He loved you to the point of death on a cross and the pains of hell. He took your place so that you can be with Him in heaven. Let us listen to our Maker and follow Him. 
	Better than sacrifices are that one loves God with all his or her heart, soul and mind and his or her neighbor. Being a living sacrifice and not being conformed to the world is what we are to become as our worship. More than singing songs on Sunday morning, but a daily remembrance of what Christ has done and living in faith for Him. Listening and obeying Jesus is how we are to love Him. Just as we know our children love us when they listen to us, let us listen to our Father in heaven and keep His commands and show that we love Him. Jesus paid it all for you on the cross and is coming back to create a new heavens and a new earth. Let us remember to love God and our neighbor and trust in Him. Jesus loves you!
