Love the Lord your God
Matthew 22:34-40
The Great Commandment
        	34But when the Pharisees heard that he had silenced the Sadducees, they gathered together. 35And one of them, a lawyer, asked him a question to test him. 36 “Teacher, which is the great commandment in the Law?” 37And he said to him, “You shall love the Lord your God with all your heart and with all your soul and with all your mind. 38This is the great and first commandment. 39And a second is like it: You shall love your neighbor as yourself. 40On these two commandments depend all the Law and the Prophets.
 
	We are to love God with all our heart, soul and mind and to love our neighbors as ourselves. What is love? In 1 Corinthians 13:4 it says,
        	4Love is patient and kind; love does not envy or boast; it is not arrogant 5or rude. It does not insist on its own way; it is not irritable or resentful; 6it does not rejoice at wrongdoing, but rejoices with the truth. 7Love bears all things, believes all things, hopes all things, endures all things.
 
	Let us love God with all of our heart, soul and mind. If you truly love someone you would listen to that person. Let us love God and follow His Word, it is His love letter to us, let us read it and follow and obey Jesus.
Let us love God with all of our heart. He is our brother, friend and King, He is in the throne of our heart. He loves us and is always with us, never abandoning us nor forsaking us.
	With our soul we are to love God. He is the lover of our soul. He bought us by His blood shed on the cross and redeemed us to Him. We are forever His and nothing can separate us from His love. Let our souls, our very being, love Jesus with all we have. Jesus is our everything.
When we become Christians and are baptized, we appeal to God for a new conscious. 1 Peter 3:21-22 says,
        	21Baptism, which corresponds to this now saves you, not as a removal of dirt from the body but as an appeal to God for a good conscience, through the resurrection of Jesus Christ, 22who has gone into heaven and is at the right hand of God, with angels, authorities, and powers having been subjected to him.
 
We are transformed once we become believers, being made new in Christ with a new conscience/mind toward God and man. We are to love God with all of our minds.
 
	In 1 John 4:15-16 it says,
15Whoever confesses that Jesus is the Son of God, God abides in him, and he in God. 16So we have come to know and to believe the love that God has for us. God is love, and whoever abides in love abides in God, and God abides in him.
 
God is love; let us love one another so that we can abide in God and God abide in us. John 3:16 says,
16 “For God so loved the world, that he gave his only Son, that whoever believes in him should not perish but have eternal life.
 
He loved us by sending His one and only Son to die for us, taking our place on the cross and bearing the guilt for all our sins. He did no wrong, but they condemned Him. He was innocent, yet He took our blame. He loved us and willingly gave up His life for us. John 15:13 says
        	13Greater love has no one than this, that someone lay down his life for his friends.
He loved us and lay down his life for us. He rose again from the dead after the third day and ascended into heaven to the right hand of God the Father Almighty, who will come to judge the living and the dead. He saved us from the eternal wrath of God, that by faith we can receive grace to be saved. In Romans 1:17 it says,
        	17For in it the righteousness of God is revealed from faith for faith, as it is written, “The righteous shall live by faith.”

We are made righteous by what Christ has done for us, covering us with His blood and making all our sins white as snow. Jesus Christ is our righteousness, not our own, but Christ’s. Jeremiah 23:6 says,
        	6In his days Judah will be saved, and Israel will dwell securely. And this is the name by which he will be called: ‘The LORD is our righteousness.’
 
	We are to love our neighbors as ourselves. In Matthew 22:39 it says,
39And a second is like it: You shall love your neighbor as yourself.
1 John 4:11 says,
	11Beloved, if God so loved us, we also ought to love one another.
 
Let us love our neighbors as ourselves. God loved us and gave His one and only Son to die for us, so let us also love one another. Let us be salt and light of the world, sharing our light of good works to others and being different in the world. Loving one another is what God wants us to do. God loved us, though we be wretched sinners, He gave His only Son to die for us, reconciling us to Him by the cross that we be called sons and daughters of God by His amazing grace. Let us remember what Christ has done for us, so that we can love one another as God has loved us.
 
 

