Love One Another
Matthew 7:12-14
The Golden Rule
        	12 “So whatever you wish that others would do to you, do also to them, for this is the Law and the Prophets.
        	13 “Enter by the narrow gate. For the gate is wide and the way is easy that leads to destruction, and those who enter it are many. 14For the gate is narrow and the way is hard that leads to life, and those who find it are few.
 
	What great love has Christ poured upon us! With his own blood He redeemed the world for those who would believe in Him from their sin, taking upon himself the sin of the world. In John 1:29 it says,
        	29The next day he saw Jesus coming toward him and said, “Behold, the Lamb of God, who takes away the sin of the world!
 
Jesus is the lamb of God who took away the sin of the world. Everyone’s sin was laid upon Him as He lay on the cross. He took it all for us and bore the punishment for our sins. He saved us for those who would believe in Him in what He has done for us. He paid it all in full on the cross and went to hell for our penalty and rose again on the third day, ascending to God the Father Almighty who will then come to judge the living and the dead. Jesus loved us to the point of shedding his blood and giving His life for us. If Christ has done such a beautiful thing for us, let us also love one another by following the Golden Rule, to do unto others what we would do to ourselves. The love we have for ourselves, let us love one another the same way and more than that, as Christians let us love one another, emulating the love Christ has done for us, by being servants to each other, serving and holding one another higher than oneself. As followers of Jesus let us follow His teachings, especially this important rule in Matthew 7:12:
12 So whatever you wish that others would do to you, do also to them, for this is the Law and the Prophets.
	If you were poor, wouldn’t you want someone to help you? If you were hungry, wouldn’t you want someone to bring you a meal? If you are hurting wouldn’t you want someone to comfort you? Let us love one another as ourselves, having a love that comes from Christ. Jesus loved us to the point of shedding His blood for us and going to hell for us and rose again defeating death, sin and satan. Jesus loved us so much and provided for us all that we have, let us help one another in service and love, supporting the weak and loving each other. How can we love God whom we have not seen, if we have not loved our brother? 1 John 4:20-21 says,
20If anyone says, “I love God,” and hates his brother, he is a liar; for he who does not love his brother whom he has seen cannot love God whom he has not seen. 21And this commandment we have from him: whoever loves God must also love his brother.
If we are lacking, let us ask God to provide for us what we lack. He is willing to give you all things! In Romans 8:31-32 it says,
31What then shall we say to these things? If God is for us, who can be against us? 32He who did not spare his own Son but gave him up for us all, how will he not also with him graciously give us all things?
 
	Let us approach the throne of grace with humble hearts and ask God to help us love one another. One thing that I have learned is to always pray for grace. Ask God for more and more grace, He will always provide. His grace is deeper than the deepest ocean and as vast as the east is from the west. God loves you!!!

