Loving One Another 

Romans 13:8-14 

Fulfilling the Law Through Love 

8Owe no one anything, except to love each other, for the one who loves another has fulfilled the law. 9For the commandments, “You shall not commit adultery, You shall not murder, You shall not steal, You shall not covet,” and any other commandment, are summed up in this word: You shall love your neighbor as yourself. 10Love does no wrong to a neighbor; therefore love is the fulfilling of the law. 

11Besides this you know the time, that the hour has come for you to wake from sleep. For salvation is nearer to us now than when we first believed. 12The night is far gone; the day is at hand. So then let us cast off the works of darkness and put on the armor of light. 13Let us walk properly as in the daytime, not in orgies and drunkenness, not in sexual immorality and sensuality, not in quarreling and jealousy. 14But put on the Lord Jesus Christ, and make no provision for the flesh, to gratify its desires. 

 

When I was driving and forgot to bring my wallet with me, I ran out of gas on the high way. I went to the gas station and begged people for some money to put gas in. The person next to my pump didn’t want to give me any, but when I went to the cashier I took some quarters in my car and told her I didn’t have any other money to buy gas with and if I could have $5 in gas. She said yes and gave me enough gas to get back home. Without her kindness, I would have been stuck in that gas station unable to go home. She was a neighbor to me. 

 

In Luke 10:29 Jesus tells us of who a neighbor is: 

29But he, desiring to justify himself, said to Jesus, “And who is my neighbor?” 30Jesus replied, “A man was going down from Jerusalem to Jericho, and he fell among robbers, who stripped him and beat him and departed, leaving him half dead. 31Now by chance a priest was going down that road, and when he saw him he passed by on the other side. 32So likewise a Levite, when he came to the place and saw him passed by on the other side. 33But a Samaritan, as he journeyed, came to where he was, ad when he saw him, he had compassion. 34He went to him and bound up his wounds, pouring on oil and wine. Then he set him on his own animal and brought him to an inn and took care of him. 35And the next day he took out two denarii and gave them to the innkeeper, saying, ‘Take care of him, and whatever more you spend, I will repay you when I come back.’ 36Which of these three, do you think, proved to be a neighbor to the man who fell among the robbers?” 37He said, “The one who showed him mercy. 
 And Jesus said to him, “You go, and do likewise.” 

 

Samaritans and Jews didn’t get along. Samaritans were a mixed race with Jewish heritage and the Jews didn’t want to associate with them. The least likely of people to help, a Samaritan, took care of the poor man who was beaten and stolen from, while a priest passed him by, and a Levite passed him by. The Samaritan fulfilled God’s law by loving his neighbor. Let us love one another like the Samaritan man and love our neighbors as ourselves.  

 

In 1 Corinthians 13:4 gives the definition of love: 

4Love is patient and kind; love does not envy or boast; it is not arrogant 5or rude. It does not insist on its own way; it is not irritable or resentful; 6it does not rejoice at wrongdoing, but rejoices with the truth. 7Love bears all things, believes all things, hopes all things, endures all things. 

 

Let us be patient with one another and kind to one another, neither being envious or boastful nor arrogant and rude. This is how we are to love one another. Romans 13:10 says  

 10Love does no wrong to a neighbor; therefore love is the fulfilling of the law.  

 

Let us be awake and sober minded, not being dulled by the desires of the flesh, but truly awake in Jesus Christ walking in the Spirit and being ready for when Jesus comes back.  

Galatians 5: 16-26 says, 

16But I say, walk by the Spirit, and you will not gratify the desires of the flesh. 17For the desires of the flesh are against the Spirit, and the desires of the Spirit are against the flesh, for these are opposed to each other, to keep you from doing the things you want to do. 18But if you are led by the Spirit, you are not under the law. 19Now the works of the flesh are evident: sexual immorality, impurity, sensuality, 20idolatry, sorcery, enmity, strife, jealously, fits of anger, rivalries, dissensions, divisions, 21envy, drunkenness, orgies and things like these. I warn you, as I warned you before, that those who do such things will not inherit the kingdom of God. 22But the fruit of the Spirit is love, joy, peace, patience, kindness, goodness, faithfulness, 23gentleness, self-control; against such things there is no law. 24And those who belong to Christ Jesus have crucified the flesh with its passions and desires. 

25If we live by the Spirit, let us also keep in step with the Spirit. 26Let us not become conceited, provoking one another, envying one another. 

It is like wearing glasses when you are blind. You can see now! The things of the flesh that dull your mind in its sins no longer hold you back from walking in the Spirit. Galatians 5:22-23 shows what the fruit of the Spirit is: 

22But the fruit of the Spirit is love, joy, peace, patience, kindness, goodness, faithfulness, 23gentleness, self-control; against such things there is no law. 24And those who belong to Christ Jesus have crucified the flesh with its passions and desires. 

So let us walk in the Spirit being one body of Christ in love, loving our neighbors as ourselves as Christ has loved us, giving up His very own life to save us from hell and giving us eternal life by grace through faith. Let us walk in the Spirit bearing the fruit of the Spirit and crucifying the desires of the flesh and saying “No!” to sin when the temptation comes. Philippians 4:13 says,  

13I can do all things through him who strengthens me. 

Let us trust in the Lord and walk in the Spirit who strengthens us to overcome the world through faith.   