Loving Jesus

Jesus Promises the Holy Spirit
15 “If you love me, you will keep my commandments. 16And I will ask the Father, and he will give you another Helper, to be with you forever, 17even the Spirit of truth, whom the world cannot receive, because it neither sees him nor knows him. You know him, for he dwells with you and will be in you.
	28 “I will not leave you as orphans; I will come to you. 19Yet a little while and the world will see me no more, but you will see me. Because I live, you also will live. 20In that day you will know that I am in my Father, and you in me, and I in you. 21Whoever has my commandments and keeps them, he it is who loves me. And he who loves me will be loved by my Father, and I will love him and manifest myself to him.” 22Judas (not Iscariot) said to him, “Lord, how is it that you will manifest yourself to us, and not to the world?” 23Jesus answered him, “If anyone loves me, he will keep my word, and my Father will love him, and we will come to him and make our home with him. 24Whoever does not love me does not keep my words. And the word that you hear is not mine but the Father’s who sent me.
	25 “These things I have spoken to you while I am still with you. 26But the Helper, the Holy Spirit, whom the Father will send in my name, he will teach you all things and bring to your remembrance all that I have said to you. 27Peace I leave with you; my peace I give to you. Not as the world gives do I give to you. Let not your hearts be troubled, neither let them be afraid.

	If you had a son, wouldn’t you be happy if he listens to you? A disobedient son would make you very upset and sad. If he loved you, he would listen to you. In the same manner let us listen to Jesus’s words who loved you and died for you and shows you the right way to live. John 14:6 says 
	6Jesus said to him, “I am the way, and the truth, and the life. No one comes to the Father except through me.
So as children of God let us obey His word and love Him and not be disobedient children. 
	In John 13:34-35 Jesus says, 
34 A new commandment I give to you, that you love one another: just as I have loved you, you also are to love one another. 35By this all people will know that you are my disciples, if you have love for one another.

Jesus gave us a new commandment to love one another and show that we are followers of Christ. Jesus wants us to love one another as He has loved us. He loved the people who mocked and spat and struck him and crucified Him and said “Father, forgive them, for they know not what they do” (Luke 23:34). He taught us in Matthew 5:44 
44But I say to you, Love your enemies and pray for those who persecute you, 45so that you may be sons of your Father who is in heaven. For he makes his sun rise on the evil and on the good, and sends rain on the just and on the unjust. 46For if you love those who love you, what rewards do you have? Do not even the tax collectors do the same? 47And if you greet only your brothers, what more are you doing than others? Do not even the Gentiles do the same? 48You therefore must be perfect, as your heavenly Father is perfect.

So when we meet enemies who do mean things to you, let us love them, give them something to eat, pray for them that they may change, and trust in God who gives you the grace to do this even when its hard. If we do this we are sons of our Father in heaven. God is most holy and wise and powerful and so perfect in love that we as children of God should reflect the same kind of love that God has. That is what it means to be a son of our Father in heaven if we love our enemies for he sends rain on the just and the unjust. If we reflect our earthly parents, having similar personalities, let us also reflect our heavenly Father by His great love since He is love itself, Agape. 
In Matthew 7:12-14 Jesus teaches the Golden Rule:
12 “So whatever you wish that others would do to you, do also to them, for this is the Law and the Prophets.
13 “Enter by the narrow gate. For the gate is wide and the way is easy that leads to destruction, and those who enter by it are many. 14For the gate is narrow and the way is hard that leads to life, and those who find it are few.

The Golden Rule is treating others the way you want to be treated. This is the summation of the Law of God and the Prophets. This is the narrow gate, to love one another as you want to be loved, and it is not easy to follow this road and those who find it are few. Let us be among this number and love one another treating them as you want to be treated. If everyone followed the Golden Rule, then how wonderful it would be! We would be in heaven on earth! So let us follow Jesus words and by doing so we show that we love Him. 
	Jesus paid it all for you by His great love. In John 3:16 Jesus says,
16 “For God so loved the world, that he gave his only Son, that whoever believes in him should not perish but have eternal life.

Jesus willingly gave up His own life for the world to save you and me. He took on the shame, the insults, the harassment, the abuse from the Pharisees and Roman soldiers and was crucified for you and me. Jesus rose again on the third day and ascended into heaven and is at the right hand of God the Father Almighty who will judge the living and the dead. He suffered God’s wrath that was meant for each of us for all of our sins on the cross and in hell. He took it all for you and paid it all for you, that by just believing in what He did for you, you can be saved.  He loved you and came to the earth for that purpose, to save your soul, that you would be saved by grace through faith. Grace means unmerited favor, that we did not do anything to deserve good things, but we got it anyway. It is like getting an A on an exam just for showing up to class. Let us show up by having faith and believe in what Jesus the Son of God did for us and follow Him in love. Jesus paid it all!
