Marks of a True Christian 
Romans 12:9-21 
Marks of a True Christian 
9Let love be genuine. Abhor what is evil; hold fast to what is good. 10Love one another with brotherly affection. Outdo one another in showing honor. 11Do not be slothful in zeal, be fervent in spirit, serve the Lord. 12Rejoice in hope, be patient in tribulation, be constant in prayer. 13Contribute to the needs of the saints and seek to show hospitality. 
	14Bless those who persecute you; bless and do not curse them. 15Rejoice with those who rejoice, weep with those who weep. 16Live in harmony with one another. Do not be haughty, but associate with the lowly. Never be wise in your own sight. 17Repay no one evil for evil, but give thought to do what is honorable in the sight of all. 18If possible, so far as it depends on you, live peaceably with all. 19Beloved, never avenge yourselves, but leave it to the wrath of God, for it is written, “Vengeance is mine, I will repay, says the Lord.” 20To the contrary, if your enemy is hungry, feed him; if he is thirsty, give him something to drink; for by so doing you will heap burning coals on his head.” 21Do not be overcome by evil, but overcome evil with good. 
 
Here apostle Paul writes about the marks of a true Christian. In Matthew 22:37-40 Jesus says, 
37And he said to him, “You shall love the Lord your God with all your heart and with all your soul and with all your mind. 38This is the great and first commandment. 39And a second is like it: You shall love your neighbor as yourself. 40On these two commandments depend all the Law and the Prophets. 
So let us love one another as Christ has loved us (v9). In Matthew 20:25 Jesus says, 
25But Jesus called them to him and said, “You know that the rulers of the Gentiles lord it over them, and their great ones exercise authority over them. 26It shall not be so among you. But whoever would be great among you must be your servant, 27and whoever would be first among you must be your slave, 28even as the Son of Man came not be served but to serve, and to give his life as a ransom for many.” 
So let us be servants of one another as Christ has served us outdoing one another in honor and zeal in serving the Lord (v10-v11).  
In Romans 5:3 it says, 
3Not only that, but we rejoice in our sufferings, knowing that suffering produces endurance, 4and endurance produces character, and character produces hope, 5and hope does not put us to shame, because God’s love has been poured into our hearts through the Holy Spirit who has been given to us. 
Let us rejoice in hope through the Holy Spirit when we go through trials of many kinds because God’s love has been poured into our hearts through the Holy Spirit who is our guarantee (v12).  
 
In Luke 6:27-36 Jesus says, 
27”But I say to you who hear, Love your enemies, do good to those who hate you, 28bless those who curse you, pray for those who abuse you. 29To one who strikes you on the cheek, offer the other also, and from one who takes away your cloak do not withhold your tunic either. 30Give to everyone who begs from you, and from one who takes away your goods do not demand them back. 31And as you wish that others would do to you, do so to them. 
	32”If you love those who love you, what benefit is that to you? For even sinners love those who love them. 33And if you do good to those who do good to you, what benefit is that to you? For even sinners do the same. 34And if you lend to those from whom you expect to receive, what credit is that to you? Even sinners lend to sinners, to get back the same amount. 35But love your enemies, and do good, and lend, expecting nothing in return, and your reward will be great, and you will be sons of the Most High, for he is kind to the ungrateful and the evil. 36Be merciful, even as your Father is merciful.  
 
So let us bless those who are our enemies, that we may have a great reward in heaven, being called sons of the Most High (v14)!  
 
Let us not be wise in our own sight (v16) and remember Proverbs 3:5-7 
5Trust in the LORD with all your heart,  
and do not lean on your own understanding. 
6In All your ways acknowledge him, 
	and he will make straight your paths. 
7Be not wise in your own eyes; 
	fear the LORD, and turn away from evil. 
 
Let us not repay evil with evil but overcome evil with good, to do what is honorable in the sight of all living peaceably with all (v17-18).  
Let us never avenge ourselves, but leave it to the wrath of God. “Vengeance is mine, I will repay, says the Lord.” (v19). Let us trust in God to take care of us when we are wronged, for He is our shepherd and He loves us. Psalm 23:1-6 
1The LORD is my shepherd; I shall not want.  
2He makes me lie down in green pastures. 
He leads me beside still waters. 
3He restores my soul. 
He leads me in paths of righteousness for his name’s sake. 
4Even though I walk through the valley, of the shadow of death,  
I will fear no evil, 
For you are with me; 
your rod and your staff, they comfort me. 
5You prepare a table before me  
	in the presence of my enemies; 
You anoint my head with oil; 
	my cup overflows. 
6Surely goodness and mercy shall follow me 
	all the days of my life, 
and I shall dwell in the house of the LORD forever. 
 
In Matthew 5:38-42 Jesus says, 
38“You have heard that it was said, ‘An eye for an eye and a tooth for a tooth.’ 39But I say to you, Do not resist the one who is evil. But if anyone slaps you on the right cheek, turn to him the other also. 40And if anyone would sue you and take your tunic, let him have your cloak as well. 41And if anyone forces you to go one mile, go with him two miles. 42Give to the one who begs from you, and do not refuse the one who would borrow from you. 
 
Let us remember these words when we go through the rough times and show Christ’s love and follow in His example. Let us overcome evil by doing good! These are the marks of a true Christian. 

