No Longer Under Law But Under Grace
Romans 6 :1-14
1What shall we say then? Are we to continue in sin that grace may abound? 2By no means! How can we who died to sin still live in it? 3Do you not know that all of us who have been baptized into Christ Jesus were baptized into his death? 4We were buried therefore with him by baptism into death, in order that, just as Christ was raised from the dead by the glory of the Father, we too might walk in newness of life.
	5For if we have been united with him in a death like his, we shall certainly be united with him in a resurrection like his. 6We know that our old self was crucified with him in order that the body of sin might be brought to nothing, so that we would no longer be enslaved to sin. 7For one who has died has been set free from sin. 8Now if we have died with Christ, we believe that we will also live with him. 9We know that Christ, being raised from the dead, will never die again; death no longer has dominion over him. 10For the death he died he died to sin, once for all, but the life he lives he lives to God. 11So you also must consider yourselves dead to sin and alive to God in Christ Jesus.
	12Let not sin therefore reign in your mortal body, to make you obey its passions. 13Do not present your members to sin as instruments for unrighteousness, but present yourselves to God as those who have been brought from death to life, and your members to God as instruments for righteousness. 14For sin will have no dominion over you, since you are not under law but under grace.

In John Bunyan’s autobiography, Grace Abounding To the Chief of Sinners, he writes about his journey with God: “But, poor wretch as I was, I was all this while ignorant of Jesus Christ, and going about to establish my own righteousness; and had perished therein, had not God, in mercy, showed me more of my state of nature.” John Bunyan, author of The Pilgrim’s Progress, had struggles with his faith, not knowing God and falling into sin, but encountered God’s word and found new faith and life in Jesus Christ, helping him to fight the good fight of faith and produce one of the most famous Christian novels of all time, The Pilgrim’s Progress, a story of a Christian going on a pilgrimage to heaven. 
Christians have been buried with Christ through baptism and are raised through faith in his life. We have died to sin, how can we still live in it? Knowing Christ, His love for us, and his atoning sacrifice for our sins, the great price He paid for us, how can we live in sin? In 2 Corinthians 5:17 it says,
17Therefore, if anyone is in Christ, he is a new creation. The old has passed away; behold, the new has come. 18 All this is from God, who through Christ reconciled us to himself and gave us the ministry of reconciliation; 19that is, in Christ God was reconciling the world to himself, not counting their trespasses against them, and entrusting to us the message of reconciliation.
We are a new creation in Christ, having been spiritually raised from the dead in Christ, putting off our old self with its sins and desires and being made a new person in Christ. In Galatians 2:20 it says,
I have been crucified with Christ. It is no longer I who live, but Christ who lives in me. And the life I now live in the flesh I live by faith in the Son of God, who loved me and gave himself for me.
Our minds have been transformed through the resurrection of Jesus Christ. In 1 Peter 3:21-22 it says,
21Baptism, which corresponds to this, now saves you, not as a removal of dirt from the body but as an appeal to God for a good conscience, through the resurrection of Jesus Christ, 22who has gone into heaven and is at the right hand of God, with angels, authorities, and powers having been subjected to him.
Our conscience has been made new, having Christ living in us, transforming us and making us holy like Him through sanctification. There is a Sunday school song called “Little by Little” which goes like this:
Little by little bit every day,
Little by little bit every day,
My Jesus is changing me-He’s changing me!
Since I made that turn of face,
I’ve been walking in His grace,
My Jesus is changing me
It is the power of Christ working in you to become holy, working in you everyday as a new creation in Christ. In Colossians 2:12-13 it says,
12having been buried with him in baptism, in which you were also raised with him through faith in the powerful working of God, who raised him from the dead. And you, who were dead in your trespasses and the uncircumcision of your flesh, God made alive together with him, having forgiven us all our trespasses, 14by canceling the record of debt that stood against us with its legal demands. This he set aside, nailing it to the cross. 15He disarmed the rulers and authorities and put them to open shame, by triumphing over them in him. 
We were buried with Christ in baptism and are raised in Christ through faith. Also, in Romans 6:7-8 it says,
7For one who has died has been set free from sin. 8Now if we have died with Christ, we believe that we will also live with him.
And in Romans 6:11 it says,
11So you also must consider yourselves dead to sin and alive to God in Christ Jesus.
All of our sins have been paid for by Christ and are forgiven. Your legal record with all your sins has been made clean with God. Jesus paid it all for you, dying on the cross for you, making you innocent before God. We consider ourselves dead to sin and alive in Christ Jesus, living new lives in Christ walking in His ways. In Matthew 10:38 Jesus says,
38And whoever does not take his cross and follow me is not worthy of me.
And in Matthew 11:28 Jesus says,
28Come to me, all who labor and are heavy laden, and I will give you rest. 29Take my yoke upon you, and learn from me, for I am gentle and lowly in heart, and you will find rest for your souls. 30For my yoke is easy, and my burden is light.”
So I encourage you, learn about Jesus your savior. Take time every morning and start it right with God’s word. Read the gospels: Matthew, Mark, Luke and John and take part in the heavenly bread which is God’s word and walk in His ways. I encourage you to take up your cross and follow Jesus following His words and walking in His ways as a new creation in Christ.
In Romans 6:12-14 it says,
12Let not sin therefore reign in your mortal body, to make you obey its passions. 13Do not present your members to sin as instruments for unrighteousness, but present yourselves to God as those who have been brought from death to life, and your members to God as instruments for righteousness. 14For sin will have no dominion over you, since you are not under law but under grace.
You have been brought from death to life, so I encourage you present yourselves as instruments for righteousness and not sin. You are no longer under the dominion of sin, no longer slaves to sin, and no longer under law because of what Christ has done for you, bearing the penalty of the law for you. You are under grace-God’s unmerited favor.


Application:
Since have been transformed by faith, let us keep in step with God’s word. Take some time to read God’s word every day, saturating yourselves in the heavenly bread which is God’s word. You are free in Christ in God’s grace, let us not forget our savior who bore the penalty of our sins by living our lives for Him walking in love and faith and hope. In Ephesians 5:18-21 it says,
18And do not get drunk with wine, for that is debauchery, but be filled with the Spirit, 19addressing one another in psalms and hymns and spiritual songs, singing and making melody to the Lord with your heart, 20 giving thanks always and for everything to God the Father in the name of our Lord Jesus Christ, 21submitting to one another out of reverence for Christ.

