No Stumbling Blocks
Romans 14:13-19
13Therefore let us not pass judgment on one another any longer, but rather decide never to put a stumbling block or hindrance in the way of a brother. 14I know and am persuaded in the Lord Jesus that nothing is unclean in itself, but it is unclean for anyone who think it unclean. 15For if your brother is grieved by what you eat, you are no longer walking in love. By what you eat, do not destroy the one for whom Christ died. 16So do not let what you regard as good be spoken of as evil. 17For the kingdom of God is not a matter of eating and drinking but of righteousness and peace and joy in the Holy Spirit. 18Whoever thus serves Christ is acceptable to God and approved by men. 19So then let us pursue what makes for peace and for mutual upbuilding.

Let us not pass judgement on one another. In Romans 14:10-11 apostle Paul says, 
10Why do you pass judgment on your brother? Or you, why do you despise your brother? For we will all stand before the judgment seat of God; 11for it is written,
“As I live, says the Lord, every knee shall bow to me,
		And every tongue shall confess to God.”
We have all sinned and fallen short of the glory of God and are in need of His grace which He freely gives to those who believe in Him (Romans 3:23). Let us not judge one another but love one another to pursue what makes for peace and mutual upbuilding. In Matthew 7:1-5 Jesus says,
1”Judge not, that you be not judged. 2For with the judgment you pronounce you will be judged, and with the measure you use it will be measured to you. 3Why do you see the speck that is in your brother’s eye, but do not notice the log that is in your own eye? 4Or how can you say to your brother, ‘Let me take the speck out of your eye,’ when there is the log in your own eye? 5You hypocrite, first take the log out of your own eye, and then you will see clearly to take the speck out of your brother’s eye.
Jesus taught us to not judge one another and to confront our sins and to cease from our sin to help another with their shortcomings. God is judge over all the earth, He will surely repay for any wrong doings. Leave it to the hand of God to have justice. In Luke 18:7-8 Jesus says,
7And will not God give justice to his elect, who cry to him day and night? Will he delay long over them? 8I tell you, he will give justice to them speedily. Nevertheless, when the Son of Man comes, will he find faith on earth?
And in Romans 12:19-21 apostle Paul writes,
19Beloved, never avenge yourselves, but leave it to the wrath of God, for it is written, “Vengeance is mine, I will repay, says the Lord.” 20To the contrary, if your enemy is hungry, feed him; if he is thirsty, give him something to drink; for by so doing you will heap burning coals on his head.” 21Do not be overcome by evil, but overcome evil with good.
Let us not put a stumbling block of legalism on a brother or sister in Christ. Legalism is when we adhere to strict rules and laws as the basis of our righteousness (“What Does Christian Legalism Mean?” 2025). This is wrong because if we do this we stumble on work-based salvation. Romans 9:30-33 says,
30What shall we say, then? That Gentiles who did not pursue righteousness have attained it, that is, a righteousness that is by faith; 31but that Israel who pursued a law that would lead to righteousness did not succeed in reaching that law. 32Why? Because they did not pursue it by faith, but as it were based on works. They have stumbled over the stumbling stone, 33as it is written,
	“Behold, I am laying in Zion a stone of stumbling, and a rock of offense;
		And whoever believes in him will not be put to shame.”
And in Romans 1:17 apostle Paul writes,
17For in it the righteousness of God is revealed from faith for faith, as it is written, “The righteous shall live by faith.”
And in Jeremiah 23:6 it says,
6In his days Judah will be saved, and Israel will dwell securely. And this is the name by which he will be called: ‘The LORD is our righteousness’.
So we see we are not righteous in God’s sight because of our works, but because we have faith in Jesus Christ who is our righteousness. Isn’t this a beautiful and wonderful good news? Jesus becomes our righteousness through faith and not works. We don’t have to earn it, it’s a free gift that Jesus gave by willingly dying for us on the cross. We are no longer under the wrath of God, but are reconciled by the blood of Jesus who became our righteousness. When God sees us, he sees His Son’s blood covered over us and no longer is angry with us for our sins. As the hymn “Jesus Paid It All” says:
Jesus paid it all, All to Him I owe, Sin had left a crimson stain, He washed it white as snow,
(“Jesus Paid It All,” n.d.).
Let us also not put a stumbling block of antinomianism. Antinomianism is where since we are saved by grace through faith there is no need to follow laws or regulations. “Antinomianism wrongly concludes that grace abolishes moral responsibility, rather than seeing grace as God’s enabling power to live righteously” (“What Is Antinomianism?” 2025). 
In Romans 3:31 apostle Paul writes,
31Do we then overthrow the law by this faith? By no means! On the contrary, we uphold the law.
So we see as Christians we uphold the law and not overthrow the law. 
In Galatians 2:20 apostle Paul writes,
20I have been crucified with Christ. It is no longer I who live, but Christ who lives in me. And the life I now live in the flesh I live by faith in the Son of God, who loved me and gave himself for me.
We are a new creation in Christ, being a temple of the Holy Spirit who dwells within us. Let us not grieve the Holy Spirit by our sins and live lives worthy of the calling we have received as believers. And in Romans 5:24 it says,
24And those who belong to Christ Jesus have crucified the flesh with its passions and desires.
Let us put to death the deeds of the flesh and walk in the Spirit. Ask God for help to overcome the flesh, He will surely help you. 
We are sanctified by grace. In Hebrews 10:14-18 it says,
14For by a single offering he has perfected for all time those who are being sanctified.
	15And the Holy Spirit also bears witness to us; for after saying,
	16”This is the covenant that I will make with them after those days, declares the Lord:
	I will put my laws on their hearts, and write them on their on their minds,”
17then he adds,
	“I will remember their sins and their lawless deeds no more.”
18Where there is forgiveness of these, there is no longer any offering for sin.

By Christ’s final atoning sacrifice, we are being sanctified. We are under the ongoing process of sanctification where God has placed His law on our hearts and minds, and no longer remembering our sins. God’s grace is sufficient for you to cover all your sins and be your strength in your weakness. In 2 Corinthians 12:9 Jesus replies to apostle Paul:
9But he said to me, “My grace is sufficient for you, for my power is made perfect in weakness.” Therefore I will boast all the more gladly of my weaknesses, so that the power of Christ may rest upon me.
God loves you! We are changing little by little everyday to be more like Christ!

Reference
“What Is Antinomianism?” 2025. Biblehub.com. 2025. https://biblehub.com/q/what_is_antinomianism.htm.
“What Does Christian Legalism Mean?” 2025. Biblehub.com. 2025. https://biblehub.com/q/what_does_christian_legalism_mean.htm.
“Jesus Paid It All.” n.d. Hymnary.org. https://hymnary.org/text/i_hear_the_savior_say_thy_strength_indee.
