Not By Law But By Faith
Galatians 2:15-21
Justified by Faith
16yet we know that a person is not justified by works of the law but through faith in Jesus Christ, so we also have believed in Christ Jesus, in order to be justified by faith in Christ and not by works of the law, because by works of the law no one will be justified.
	17But if, in our endeavor to be justified in Christ, we too were found to be sinners, is Christ then a servant of sin? Certainly not! 18For if I rebuild what I tore down, I prove myself to be a transgressor. 19For through the law I died to the law, so that I might live to God. 20I have been crucified with Christ. It is no longer I who live, but Christ who lives in me. And the life I now live in the flesh I live by faith in the Son of God, who loved me and gave himself for me. 21I do not nullify the grace of God, for if righteousness were through the law, then Christ died for no purpose. 

It's the holiday season and Santa has already come with gifts, either coal or presents based on what the children have done throughout the year. Yet for us, as Christians, it is not about what we have done to receive the gift of eternal life, but by faith. We are justified by faith and not by works of the law. Jesus gave us his gift of eternal life for those who just believe in what He has done and not by the merit of works. 
Verse 16 of Galatians says,
16yet we know that a person is not justified by works of the law but through faith in Jesus Christ, so we also have believed in Christ Jesus, in order to be justified by faith in Christ and not by works of the law, because by works of the law no one will be justified.
Here it is plainly said that we are justified by faith, and not by works. Works cannot justify a person. What good we have done cannot out weigh the bad we have done, because in James 2:10 it says,
10For whoever keeps the whole law but fails in one point has become guilty of all of it.
Just one sin makes you stained and only by Jesus’ blood can we be made white as snow as His blood covers over our sins.
Romans 3:23 says,
23for all have sinned and fall short of the glory of God, 24and are justified by his grace as a gift, through the redemption that is Christ Jesus, 25whom God put forward as a propitiation by his blood, to be received by faith. This was to show God’s righteousness, because in his divine forbearance he had passed over former sins.
We have all sinned, and are in need of God’s grace. Trying to be justified by works is like taking a Harvard entrance examination and getting 0 mistakes. If you make just one, you fail. So we too would fail, unless Jesus had come to save us through His blood and through the cross to take away the sins of the world. Only through faith can we be justified in God’s sight and not by works, that by believing in what Jesus has done for us, we can receive grace to be saved. And not only are we saved, but we are sanctified by the Holy Spirit who is our guarantee, helping us to be holy, for God is holy (1 Peter 1:16). A pastor emeritus once said that religion is based on what we do to be accepted, but for Christians it is being accepted and so we do. All the other religions in the world are about what we do to get to heaven but for Christians it is about having faith in the saving work of Jesus Christ of how He took our sins on the cross for us and made us righteous and blameless by faith. 
	Galatians 2:20 says, 
20I have been crucified with Christ. It is no longer I who live, but Christ who lives in me. And the life I now life in the flesh I live by faith in the Son of God, who loved me and gave himself for me. 21I do not nullify the grace of God, for if righteousness were through the law, then Christ died for no purpose.
Here this verse shows that we are regenerated and born new in the image of Christ. We are born again as Jesus says in John 3:3 
3Jesus answered him, “Truly, truly, I say to you, unless one is born again he cannot see the kingdom of God.”
With all our sins crucified on the cross, we have positionally died with Christ on the cross and are raised to life in His resurrection (Colossians 2:12). We are born again once we have believed and received the Holy Spirit, and being baptized which is an appeal to God for a new conscious (1 Peter 3:21). The life we live in the flesh, we live by faith in the Son of God who loved us and gave himself for us. If you love someone, you would listen to that person. And so Jesus says in John 14:21
21Whoever has my commandments and keeps them, he it is who love me. And he who loves me will be loved by my Father, and I will love him and manifest myself to him.”
Let us love Jesus by following His commandments such as in John 13:34:
34A new commandment I give to you, that you love one another: just as I have loved you, you also are to love one another.
If we were to try to be justified by works, we would be nullifying the grace of God. Galatians 2:21 says,
21I do not nullify the grace of God, for if righteousness were through the law, then Christ died for no purpose.
If we claim that our works can make us righteous, then how would we be saved? Christ came into the world to save us from our sins and if we claim that it was our works we do not give credit to God for what He has done. He paid it all for you taking on the Roman nails, the flogging with metal shards at the tip of the whips, the insults and jeering, the mocking and framing and even the punishment of hell of God’s wrath. How can we claim righteousness on what we have done when Christ did it all for you and not only that, He calls you righteous. A way to put it is if you were in a group project and you knew absolutely nothing of the assignment, Jesus would be your partner and help you get a 100 on the project. If you bragged that you contributed, that would be not right. In Ephesians 2:1-10 it says,
And you were dead in the trespasses and sins in which you once walked, following the course of this world, following the prince of the power of the air, the spirit that is now at work in the sons of disobedience-3among whom we all once lived in the passions of our flesh, carrying out the desires of the body and the mind, and were by nature children of wrath, like the rest of mankind. 4But God, being rich in mercy, because of the great love which he loved us, 5even when we were dead in our trespasses, made us alive together with Christ-by grace you have been saved-6and raised us up with him and seated us with him in the heavenly places in Christ Jesus, 7so that in the coming ages he might show the immeasurable riches of his grace in kindness toward us in Christ Jesus. 8For by grace you have been saved through faith. And this is not your own doing; it is the gift of God, 9not a result of works, so that no one may boast. 10For we are his workmanship, created in Christ Jesus for good works, which God prepared beforehand, that we should walk in them.
	One is justified by faith and not by works. The stumbling block of trying to be justified by works cannot save you as it is impossible for man to do. Only Jesus was able to keep the Law and Prophets perfectly and took our place as a sacrifice and substitute for our sins. Galatians 3:11 says, 
11Now it is evident that no one is justified before God by the law, for “The righteous shall live by faith.”
Let us always remember that we are saved by grace through faith and not by works lest we should boast. God loves you!!!
