Nothing Can Separate Us From the Love of Christ

Romans 8:31-39

	31What then shall we say to these things? If God is for us, who can be against us? 32He who did not spare his own Son but gave him up for us all, how will he not also with him graciously give us all things? 33Who shall bring any charge against God’s elect? It is God who justifies. 34Who is to condemn? Christ Jesus is the one who died-more than that, who was raised-who is at the right hand of God, who indeed is interceding for us. 35Who shall separate us from the love of Christ? Shall tribulation, or distress, or persecution, or famine, or nakedness, or danger, or sword? 36As it is written,
	“For your sake we are being killed all the day long;
		We are regarded as sheep to be slaughtered.”
37No, in all these things we are more than conquerors through him who loved us. 38For I am sure that neither death nor life, nor angels nor rulers, nor things present nor things to come, nor powers, 39nor height nor depth, nor anything else in all creation, will be able to separate us from the love of God in Christ Jesus our Lord.

Nothing can separate us from the love of Christ. We were bought by the blood of the lamb, our debts being freed and forever belonging to Christ who paid the ransom for us. 1 Corinthians 6:20 says,

20for you were bought with a price. So glorify God in your body.

Jesus paid for you through the cross. Isaiah 53:4-5 says,

4Surely he has borne our griefs
	and carried our sorrows;
yet we esteemed him stricken,
smitten by God, and afflicted.
5But he was pierced for our transgressions;
	he was crushed for our iniquities;
upon him was the chastisement that brought us peace,
and with his wounds we are healed.

Jesus loved you so much he endured the cross, enduring the shame and agony to save us. Even in His affliction He said in Luke 23:34, 

34And Jesus said, “Father, forgive them, for they know not what they do.” And they cast lots to divide his garments.

Jesus is the name above all names, the King of kings and Lord of lords. There is therefore now no condemnation for those who are in Christ Jesus (Romans 8:1). It is Jesus who justifies us through His blood shed on the cross. He took our place for us, so no one can condemn us for our sins. We are righteous, not because of what we’ve done, but because of what Christ has done for us. Jeremiah 23:6 says,

6In his days Judah will be saved, and Israel will dwell securely. And this is the name by which he will be called: ‘The LORD is our righteousness.’

Romans 1:17 says,
17For in the righteousness of God is revealed from faith for faith, as it is written, “The righteous shall live by faith.”

	Nothing will be able to separate us from the love of Christ. In 2 Timothy 2:13 it says,
13if we are faithless, he remains faithful-
for he cannot deny himself.

We who have been redeemed by the blood of the lamb are a new creation in Christ. 2 Corinthians 5:17 says,

17Therefore, if anyone is in Christ, he is a new creation. The old has passed away; behold the new has come.

Galatians 2:20 says,
20I have been crucified with Christ. It is no longer I who live, but Christ who lives in me. And the life I now live in the flesh I live by faith in the Son of God, who loved me and gave himself for me.

We are the body of Christ, the church. In Colossians 1:15-17 it says,

15He is the image of the invisible God, the firstborn of all creation. 16For by him all things were created, in heaven and on earth, visible and invisible, whether thrones or dominions or rulers or authorities-all things were created through him and for him. 17And he is before all things, and in him all things hold together. 18And he is the head of the body, the church. He is the beginning, the firstborn from the dead, that in everything he might be preeminent. 19For in him all the fullness of God was pleased to dwell, 20and through him to reconcile to himself all things, whether on earth or in heaven, making peace by the blood of his cross.

Romans 8:37 says,

37No, in all these things we are more than conquerors through him who loved us.

We can overcome with faith. In 1 John 5:4-5 it says,

4For everyone who has been born of God overcomes the world-our faith. 5Who is it that overcomes the world except the one who believes that Jesus is the Son of God? 

So we are more than conquerors through Jesus Christ who loves us. Let us wear the shield of faith and overcome the world and its desires which are passing away. 1 John 2:15-17 says,

15Do not love the world or the things in the world. If anyone loves the world, the love of the Father is not in him. 16For all that is in the world-the desires of the flesh and the desires of the eyes and pride of life-is not from the Father but is from the world. 17And the world is passing away along with its desires, but whoever does the will of God abides forever.

Nothing can separate us from the love of Christ!
