Reconciled in Christ Jesus
Romans 5:6-11
6For while we were still weak, at the right time Christ died for the ungodly. 7For one will scarcely die for a righteous person-though perhaps for a good person one would dare even to die-8but God shows his love for us in that while we were still sinners, Christ died for us. 9Since, therefore, we have now been justified by his blood, much more shall we be saved by him from the wrath of God. 10For if while we were enemies we were reconciled to God by the death of his Son, much more, now that we are reconciled, shall we be saved by his life. 11More than that, we rejoice in God through our Lord Jesus Christ, through whom we have now received reconciliation.

Let me tell you a story. There was a dad with his son and his friend on a fishing trip in the ocean. One day, a storm came in and both son and his friend fell into the water. The dad could only save one. Who did he save? He saved his son’s friend. One may ask, why didn’t he save his son? Well, it’s because he knew his son believed in Jesus and he would want his dad to save his friend who didn’t know God. If his friend died then his friend would’ve gone to hell for all eternity. 
Christ died for us to save us from the wrath of God. Because of our sins, we would have gone to hell for all eternity facing the wrath of God in unquenchable fire for “’their worm shall not die, their fire shall not be quenched, and they shall be an abhorrence to all flesh.’” Isaiah 66:24. Yet Christ took on the wrath of God for the whole world. He went to hell for you and me, experiencing the wrath of God for us. In the story above, the father is God the Father, the son who died is Jesus, and the friend is us. In John 3:16 it says,
16”For God so loved the world, that he gave his only Son, that whoever believes in him should not perish but have eternal life.”
Jesus wanted to save you, so he took the fall for you. He rescued you from the sentence of hell and calls you his friend. Can you imagine how great His love is for us? He who gave up His life for us, to endure the scorn and shame of the cross, calls you His friend and even forgave the ones who were mocking them while He hung on the cross. In Luke 23:34 it says,
34And Jesus said, “Father, forgive them, for they know not what they do.” And they cast lots to divide his garments.
Jesus said this while he hung on the cross. 
He loved His enemies and reconciled us to Him by His death and His life. In Romans 5:10 it says,
10For if while we were enemies we were reconciled to God by the death of his Son, much more, now that we are reconciled, shall we be saved by his life.
We are reconciled because Jesus took our place on the cross for our sins and went to hell for us and rose again on the third day, ascending to the right hand of God the Father Almighty who will come to judge the quick and the dead. Jesus appeased the wrath of God by saying, “not him, but me-choose me. I’ll suffer for him; I’ll take his punishment.” More than that we are saved by His life because He rose again from the dead and is at the right hand of God the Father Almighty. In John 16:33 Jesus says,
33I have said these things to you, that in me you may have peace. In the world you will have tribulation. But take heart; I have overcome the world.”
Jesus sent us His Holy Spirit to be with us. In John 16:7-15 Jesus says,
7Nevertheless, I tell you the truth: it is to your advantage that I go away, for if I do not go away, the Helper will not come to you. But if I go, I will send him to you. 8And when he comes, he will convict the world concerning sin and righteousness and judgment: 9concerning sin, because they do not believe in me; 10concerning righteousness, because I go to the Father, and you will see me no longer; 11concerning judgment, because the ruler of this world is judged.
	12”I still have many things to say to you, but you cannot bear them now. 13When the Spirit of truth comes, he will guide you into all the truth, for he will not speak on his own authority, but whatever he hears he will speak, and he will declare to you the things that are to come. 14He will glorify me, for he will take what is mine and declare it to you. 15All that the Father has is mine; therefore I said that he will take what is mine and declare it to you.
We rejoice in God through whom we have now received reconciliation. In Ephesians 2:13-22 Apostle Paul says,
13But now in Christ Jesus you who once were far off have been brought near by the blood of Christ. 14For he himself is our peace, who has made us both one and has broken down in his flesh the dividing wall of hostility 15by abolishing the law of commandments expressed in ordinances, that he might create in himself one new man in place of the two, so making peace, 16and might reconcile us both to God in one body through the cross, thereby killing the hostility. 17And he came and preached peace to you who were far off and peace to those who were near. 18For through him we both have access in one Spirit to the Father. 19So then you are no longer strangers and aliens, but you are fellow citizens with the saints and members of the household of God, 20built on the foundation of the apostles and prophets, Christ Jesus himself being the cornerstone, 21in whom the whole structure, being joined together, grows into a holy temple in the Lord. 22In him you also are being built together into a dwelling place for God by the Spirit.
 The wall of hostility between man and God has been torn down. We have been reconciled to God. When God looks at us, He sees His Son’s blood covering over us and His love and sacrifice for us in dying for us. We are loved more than we could ever know. His love for us is found in His Son’s sacrifice. There is nothing we can do to make God love us more, nothing we can do to make God love us less. Not our righteousness, not our works, but Christ’s. In Psalm115:1 it says,
Not to us, O LORD, not to us, but to your name give glory, 
	For the sake of your steadfast love and your faithfulness!
All glory belongs to God. And the Lord has made himself our righteousness. In Jeremiah 23:6 it says,
6In his days Judah will be saved, and Israel will dwell securely. And this is the name by which he will be called: “The LORD is our righteousness.’
God’s love for us is as far as the east is from the west. In Psalm 103:12 king David says,
12	as far as the east is from the west, 
		So far does he remove our transgressions from us.
13	As a father shows compassion to his children,
		So the LORD shows compassion to those who fear him.
Casting Crowns says in his song “East to West”: 
Jesus, can You show me
Just how far the east is from the west?
'Cause I can't bear to see the man I've been
Come rising up in me again
In the arms of Your mercy I find rest
'Cause You know just how far the east is from the west
From one scarred hand to the other
