Salt and Light
Matthew 5:13-16
	13“You are the salt of the earth, but if salt has lost its taste, how shall its saltiness be restored? It is no longer good for anything except to be thrown out and trampled under people’s feet.
	14 “You are the light of the world. A city set on a hill cannot be hidden. 15Nor do people light a lamp and put it under a basket, but on a stand, and it gives light to all in the house. 16In the same way, let your light shine before others, so that they may see your good works and give glory to your Father who is in heaven.

	Recently I have been having an itchy nose problem. For months I have been trying to find ways to cure it, but the thing I found that could cure it was salt water! Salt has powerful healing capabilities and is a necessary part of the body. Likewise we are the salt and light of the world, sharing our light to others and being different compared to others. 
	Since we are salt, let us live our lives as salt, burning away the bacteria of sin. We who have been redeemed by the blood of the Lamb have been crucified with Christ. In Galatians 2:20-21 says,
	20I have been crucified with Christ. It is no longer I who live, but Christ who lives in me. And the life I now live in the flesh I live by faith in the Son of God, who loved me and gave himself for me. 21I do not nullify the grace of God, for if righteousness were through the law, then Christ died for no purpose. 

Verse 20 says that “the life I now live in the flesh I live by faith in the Son of God, who loved me and gave himself for me”. Living by faith in the Son of God is walking in the Spirit and not the flesh. In Galatians 5:16-24 it says,

	16But I say, walk by the Spirit, and you will not gratify the desires of the flesh. 17For the desires of the flesh are against the Spirit, and the desires of the Spirit are against the flesh, for these are opposed to each other, to keep you from doing the things you want to do. 18But if you are led by the Spirit, you are not under the law. 19Now the works of the flesh are evident: sexual immorality, impurity, sensuality, 20idolatry, sorcery, enmity, strife, jealousy, fits of anger, rivalries, dissensions, divisions, 21envy, drunkenness, orgies, and things like these. I warn you, as I warned you before, that those who do such things will not inherit the kingdom of God. 22But the fruit of the Spirit is love, joy, peace, patience, kindness, goodness, faithfulness, 23gentleness, self-control; against such things there is no law. 24And those who belong to Christ Jesus have crucified the flesh with its passions and desires.

And in verse 24 it says, “And those who belong to Christ Jesus have crucified the flesh with its passions and desires”. So we are putting to death the deeds of the flesh which are outlined in verse 19-21: “sexual immorality, impurity, sensuality, idolatry, sorcery, enmity, strife, jealousy, fits of anger, rivalries, dissensions, divisions, 21envy, drunkenness, orgies, and things like these”. Let us walk in the Spirit, who helps us to not do these things but walk in “love, joy, peace, patience, kindness, goodness, faithfulness, 23gentleness, self-control” (verse 22-23). Pray earnestly to God that you may have this fruit of the Spirit; He who is willing to give you all things will surely help you. Spend time in God’s word, have a practice of daily devotion to know Jesus more and follow Him and His teachings. We are the salt and light of the world, let us shine our light and be different in the world.
In 1 John 3:4-6 John says,
4Everyone who makes a practice of sinning also practices lawlessness; sin is lawlessness. 5You know that he appeared in order to take away sins, and in him there is no sin. 6No one who abides in him keeps on sinning; no one who keeps on sinning has either seen him or known him. 

Being children of God we will no longer continue in sin, but in righteousness, those of us who have faith in Jesus. Let us live transformed lives for Christ, putting away all rampart sins and walk in the Spirit, bearing the fruit of the Spirit: love, joy, peace, patience, kindness, goodness, faithfulness, gentleness, and self-control. Let us glorify the name above all names Jesus Christ for what He has done for us, bearing the cross for our sin and atoning for the penalty of our sin, appeasing the wrath of God and reconciling us to Himself as sons and daughters of God. Let us live our lives for Christ by crucifying the flesh and its desires and walking in the Spirit and being salt and light of the world, shining our light to others of our good works so that they may glorify our Father who is in heaven. 
