Saved By Grace Through Faith
Romans 11:6
6But if it is by grace, it is no longer on the basis of works; otherwise grace would no longer be grace.


	We are saved by grace through faith and not by works.
Ephesians 2:8
8For by grace you have been saved through faith. And this is not your own doing; it is the gift of God, 9not a result of works, so that no one may boast. 10 For we are his workmanship, created in Christ Jesus for good works, which God prepared beforehand, that we should walk in them.

We are created to do good works, but are not saved by them. Otherwise you would be saving yourself by your own works. Our works, our own righteousness, is like a polluted garment. Isaiah 64:6 says,

6We have all become like one who is unclean,
	and all our righteous deeds are like a polluted garment.
We all fade like a leaf,
	and our iniquities, like the wind, take us away.

If you were to try to be saved by works, grace would no longer be grace (Romans 11:6). How terrifying is that! But what it means is that you are diminishing what Christ has done for you, taking your place on the cross, and by thinking you can save yourself by your works. Doing all the right things on a checklist won’t get you into heaven. It is by grace through faith that you are saved. Trying to be saved through the law makes no sense but many do it! Many believe that their works will get them into heaven. But Christ has done away with all that by becoming a curse for us. Galatians 3:13 says,

Christ redeemed us from the curse of the law by becoming a curse for us-for it is written, “Cursed is everyone who is hanged on a tree”-14so that in Christ Jesus the blessing of Abraham might come to the Gentiles, so that we might receive the promised Spirit through faith. 

Once we have been saved, we are new creations in Christ. We live by faith in the Son of God, while living in the flesh for God. Our desires, the way we greet people, and the way we treat others, we walk in faith being Christ like. We live and think “WWJD”, or “What Would Jesus Do”? 

Galatians 2:20
20I have been crucified with Christ. It is no longer I who live, but Christ who lives in me. And the life I now live in the flesh I live by faith in the Son of God, who loved me and gave himself for me. 21I do not nullify the grace of God, for if righteousness were through the law, then Christ died for no purpose. 

So we see here that if we were to find righteousness through the law, then grace would no longer be grace (Romans 11:6).

So we have a great hope! Being saved by works is like a yoke of slavery. Martin Luther before he lead the Reformation, climbed the Stairs of Wittenburg on his knees trying to atone for his sins. But he realized it would never suffice. It is like a heavy burden on one’s back. But Christ can free you from it! Galatians 3:11 says,

11Now it is evident that no one is justified before God by the law, for “The righteous shall live by faith.”

We are righteous before God not because of works, but by faith. Jesus becomes our righteousness through faith. Jeremiah 23:6 says,

6In his days Judah will be saved, and Israel will dwell securely. And this is the name by which he will be called: ‘The LORD is our righteousness’.

And in 2 Corinthians 5:21,
21For our sake he made him to be sin who knew no sin, so that in him we might become the righteousness of God.

Jesus took our place on the cross, being the spotless lamb of God to atone for our sins. Hebrews 7:26-27 says,

26For it was indeed fitting that we should have such a high priest, holy, innocent, unstained, separated from sinners, and exalted above the heavens. 27He has no need, like those high priests, to offer sacrifices daily, first for his own sins and then for those of the people, since he did this once for all when he offered up himself.

Romans 6:12-14 says,
12Let not sin therefore reign in your mortal body, to make you obey its passions. 13Do not present your members to sin as instruments for unrighteousness, but present yourselves to God as those who have been brought from death to life, and your members to God as instruments for righteousness. 14For sin will have no dominion over you, since you are not under law but under grace.

We, as Christians, therefore, have freedom from sin. Before being saved, we were unable to not sin, but now we are able to not sin. Let us continue walking in faith in Jesus Christ being new creations in Christ and being Christ-like in our daily lives loving one another as Christ has loved us. 
