Sinners Saved by the Blood of Christ
 
Roman 5:8-11
8but God shows his love for us while we were still sinners, Christ died for us. 9Since therefore, we have now been justified by his blood, much more shall we be saved by him from the wrath of God. 10For if while we were enemies we were reconciled to God by the death of his Son, much more, now that we are reconciled, shall we be saved by his life. 11More than that, we also rejoice in God through our Lord Jesus Christ, through whom we have now received reconciliation.
 
	God loved us by sending his One and only Son to die for us. In John 3:16 Jesus says,
16 “For God so loved the world, that he gave his only Son, that whoever believes in him should not perish but have eternal life.
Jesus willingly laid down his life for us, saving us from the wrath of God and freeing us from the shackles of sin. We are free in Christ! His love for us is as wide as the east is from the west, from one scarred hand to the other. Jesus said in John 15:13,
13Greater love has no one than this, that someone lay down his life for his friends.
There is no greater love than what Christ has done for us.
His blood covers over us. Exodus 12:12-13 says,
For I will pass through the land of Egypt that night, and I will strike all the firstborn in the land of Egypt, both man and beast; and on all the gods of Egypt I will execute judgments: I am the LORD. 13The blood shall be a sign for you, on the houses where you are. And when I see the blood, I will pass over you, and no plague will befall you to destroy you, when I strike the land of Egypt.
During the Exodus, God passed over all the houses with lamb’s blood on their doorposts. Only those houses did not experience death of their firstborn. Jesus’s blood is what covers us, appeasing the wrath of God. His blood justifies us by making our sins white as snow. When God sees us, He sees His One and Only Son’s blood covering us, and we are saved. Through faith we are accounted righteous before God. Jesus, who did no sin, took on our sin and shed His blood for us. He took our place, enduring the wrath of God.
	We are reconciled by Jesus’s blood shed on the cross for us for the remission of sins. Not only are we reconciled by his blood, but by his life! He rose again! Jesus is alive in heaven and is interceding for us. In Romans 8:34 it says,
34Who is to condemn? Christ Jesus is the one who died-more than that, who was raised-who is at the right hand of God, who indeed is interceding for us.
It is impossible for God to be held by death and Jesus defeated death, rising on the third day. In Acts 2:24 it says,
24God raised him up, loosing the pangs of death, because it was not possible for him to be held by it.
In Colossians 1:15-23 says,
15He is the image of the invisible God, the firstborn of all creation. 16For by him all things were created, in heaven and on earth, visible and invisible, whether thrones or dominions or rulers or authorities-all things were created through him and for him. 17And he is before all things, and in him all things hold together. 18And he is the head of the body, the church. He is the beginning, the firstborn from the dead, that in everything he might be preeminent. 19For in him all the fullness of God was pleased to dwell, 20and through him to reconcile to himself all things, whether on earth or in heaven, making peace by the blood of his cross.
        	21And you, who once were alienated and hostile in mind, doing evil deeds, 22he has now reconciled in his body of flesh by his death, in order to present you holy and blameless and above reproach before him, 23if indeed you continue in the faith, stable and steadfast, not shifting from the hope of the gospel that you heard, which has been proclaimed in all creation under heaven, and of which I, Paul, became a minister.
 
Jesus is the savior of the world, defeating sin, satan, and death. Jesus saves!!!

