The Resurrection
Matthew 28:1-10
Now after the Sabbath, toward the dawn of the first day of the week, Mary Magdalene and the other Mary went to see the tomb. 2 And behold, there was a great earthquake, for an angel of the Lord descended from heaven and came and rolled back the stone and sat on it. 3 His appearance was like lightning, and his clothing white as snow. 4 And for fear of him the guards trembled and became like dead men. 5 But the angel said to the women, “Do not be afraid, for I know that you seek Jesus who was crucified. 6 He is not here, for he has risen, as he said. Come, see the place where he lay. 7 Then go quickly and tell his disciples that he has risen from the dead, and behold, he is going before you to Galilee; there you will see him. See, I have told you.” 8 So they departed quickly from the tomb with fear and great joy, and ran to tell his disciples. 9 And behold, Jesus met them and said, “Greetings!” And they came up and took hold of his feet and worshiped him. 10 Then Jesus said to them, “Do not be afraid; go and tell my brothers to go to Galilee, and there they will see me.” 

	Imagine the joy that was felt in the disciples when they saw Jesus. After seeing the horror of the crucifixion, how deep their sorrow must have been. However, Jesus on the third day came back and wiped out their sadness with the most beautiful statement, “Greetings!”. It may be like seeing a friend after a long time of separation and how joyous it must have been to see each other. And the disciples came up to him and worshipped at His feet. Jesus overcame death, sin, and satan on the cross and met His disciples after He rose again. Jesus paid it all for you and me on the cross that on the third day, He rose again from the dead, paid for all our sins as our atonement and ascended into heaven at the right hand of God the Father Almighty who will judge the living and the dead. 
	Jesus went through Good Friday on the cross, went through humiliation and mocking, flogging with metal on the whips, and made to carry His own cross until He couldn’t, and was crucified for all our sins. For our sake he made him to be sin who knew no sin, so that in him we might become the righteousness of God (2 Corinthians 5:21). That “the righteous shall live by faith” Romans 1:17. And “the LORD is our righteousness” (Jeremiah 23:6). If your friend was wronged and made fun of, wouldn’t you be there to defend him? Yet Jesus said in Matthew 26:53 “Do you think that I cannot appeal to my Father, and he will at once send me more than twelve legions of angels?” Jesus is our friend, Lord and Savior who took on the shame and humiliation for us, that we may be judged innocent in the sight of God where all our wrongdoings are covered by the blood of the Lamb who took away the sin of the world, making us white as snow. Jesus is the Passover Lamb in Exodus 12 where God through Moses tells the Israelites to put lamb’s blood on the top of the door of their house and God will pass over those houses and not slay their firstborn. The lamb’s blood foreshadows what Jesus would do for us, in passing over our sins where Jesus took on the wrath of God and punishment of our sins in our place. Jesus paid it all for you, making you free in Him and reconciled to Him, that the hostility between God and us is gone and we are adopted sons and daughters of God (Ephesians 2:26). Let us always remember God’s free gift of grace that we are saved by grace through faith and not by works, lest we should boast (Ephesians 2:8-9). 
	Let us celebrate this Easter Sunday with joy and peace in our hearts in knowing that Jesus paid it all for us and finished the work that He came to do on the earth, by becoming the atoning sacrifice for sins on the cross and rising again from the dead on the third day, ascending into heaven at the right hand of God the Father Almighty who will judge the living and the dead. Matthew 28:18 says:
And Jesus came and said to them, “All authority in heaven and on earth has been given to me. 19 Go therefore and make disciples of all nations, baptizing them in the name of the Father and of the Son and of the Holy Spirit, 20 teaching them to observe all that I have commanded you. And behold, I am with you always, to the end of the age.”
Jesus loves you!!!
