The Mustard Seed

Matthew 13:31-33
The Mustard Seed and the Leaven
	31 He put another parable before them, saying, “The kingdom of heaven is like a grain of mustard seed that a man took and sowed in his field. 32It is the smallest of all seeds, but when it has grown it is larger than all the garden plants and becomes a tree, so that the birds of the air come and make nests in its branches.”
	33 He told them another parable. “The kingdom of heaven is like leaven that a woman took and hid in three measures of flour, till it was all leavened.”

There was a time when I tried to make pizza from scratch. I took flour, added water and yeast to it to make it grow. After I added yeast, I waited a few hours for it to rise before cooking. Jesus said “The kingdom of heaven is like leaven that a woman took and hid in three measures of flour, till it was all leavened” (v33). This is the church spreading the Word of God throughout the world, leavening the people to grow in faith in Jesus Christ. 
Planting seeds in a garden is kingdom work. We as Christians should spread the Word of God to those around us to follow the Great Commission in Matthew 28:18
18And Jesus came and said to them, “All authority in heaven and on earth has been given to me. 19Go therefore and make disciples of all nations, baptizing them in the name of the Father and of the Son and of the Holy Spirit, 20 teaching them to observe all that I have commanded you. And behold, I am with you always, to the end of the age.”
Jesus said in Matthew 13:31, “The kingdom of heaven is like a grain of mustard seed that a man took and sowed in his field. 32It is the smallest of all seeds, but when it has grown it is larger than all the garden plants and becomes a tree, so that the birds of the air come and make nests in its branches.”
Mustard seeds are so small, and can represent our faith as we start believing in Jesus. But although our faith may start small, it grows many times its size, growing into a tree bigger than all the garden plants. All we need is faith as small as a mustard seed to grow into a big tree. Let us nourish our faith with daily devotion and prayer to help grow our faith so we can become giant trees of faith, being a part of the kingdom of heaven. Jesus loves us and chose us to believe in Him, it is nothing of our own merit that we are saved, it is all God’s grace in reaching down to us and planting faith into our hearts to believe in Him and His saving work on the cross helping us to bear fruit in our lives that are prepared for us to do (Ephesians 2:10). Let us bear fruit in our lives as growing mustard trees, because although we start small, we grow into tall trees in faith where in every low and every high we go in life, we have God holding us, where steadfastness builds faith through trials in life. James 1:2-4 says:
2Count it all joy, my brothers, when you meet trials of various kinds, 3 for you know that the testing of your faith produces steadfastness. 4 And let steadfastness have its full effect, that you may be perfect and complete, lacking in nothing. 
Even though trials are hard, let us have joy in Christ, knowing that He too went through trials like us, being human, and knows what we are going through, interceding for us as our Great High Priest helping us go forward in life when trials knock us down, always helping us get back up again and helping us be “more than conquerors through him who loved us” (Romans 8:37). Psalm 24:16 says, 
for the righteous falls seven times and rises again, but the wicked stumble in times of calamity.
We by faith are accounted righteous before God, where in Romans 1:17 says, 
17 For in it the righteousness of God is revealed from faith for faith,[a] as it is written, “The righteous shall live by faith.”
Let us be mustard trees growing in faith in Christ and in His kingdom, where trees grow beyond the horizon bearing all kinds of wonderful fruits in service, love, faith, and good works and by walking in the Spirit where the fruit of the Spirit is love, joy, peace, patience, kindness, goodness, faithfulness, and self-control (Galatians 5:22-23). Let us ask God to help us with our walk with Him, praying for grace to overcome sin, crucifying our flesh with its passions and desires (Galatians 5:24). Romans 9:16 says 
16 So then it depends not on human will or exertion, but on God, who has mercy. 
Let us put our trust in God to overcome our flesh with its passions and desires and ask for His mercy to walk in the Spirit, not trusting in our wills but on Christ who is with us helping us overcome. It just starts with prayer, and I believe God will take care of the rest. 
Jesus paid it all for you on the cross, enduring the shame and punishment of our sins, was crucified and experienced the wrath of God for our sins, descending into hell, and on the third day, rose again from the dead, ascended into heaven at the right hand of God the Father Almighty who will judge the living and the dead. Jesus paid it all for you, that, as John Piper says, “we are not destined for wrath”, but for grace in having a new life in Christ where sin has no dominion over you, since you are not under law but under grace (Romans 7:14) and where we have a living hope in Jesus where Jesus is our best friend who loves us, and died for us. It all starts out with a mustard seed, for great things to happen. Jesus loves you!

