The Gift of God is Eternal Life in Christ Jesus our Lord
Romans 6:15-23
15 What then? Are we to sin because we are not under law but under grace? By no means! 19 Do you not know that if you present yourselves to anyone as obedient slaves, you are slaves of the one whom you obey, either of sin, which leads to death, or of obedience, which leads to righteousness? 17 But thanks be to God, that you who were once slaves of sin have become obedient from the heart to the standard of teaching to which you were committed, 18 and, having been set free from sin, have become slaves of righteousness. 19 I am speaking in human terms, because of your natural limitations. For just as you once presented your members as slaves to impurity and to lawlessness leading to more lawlessness, so now present your members as slaves to righteousness leading to sanctification.
	20 For when you were slaves of sin, you were free in regard to righteousness. 21 But what fruit were you getting at that time from the things of which you are now ashamed? For the end of those things is death. 22 But now that you have been set free from sin and have become slaves of God, the fruit you get leads to sanctification and its end, eternal life. 23 For the wages of sin is death, but the free gift of God is eternal life in Christ Jesus our Lord.

On January 1, 1863, President Abraham Lincoln issued the Emancipation Proclamation freeing the enslaved people of America. Can you imagine the joy the people felt as they were freed? No more they have to do the tasks of their owners, no more fear of beatings and abuse; they are freed men and women!! We were all once under a bondage of sin. We were trapped in sin. But with Christ there is freedom from sin making us free men and women. In Luke 4:18 it says,
18 “The Spirit of the Lord is upon me,
	Because he has anointed me to proclaim good news to the poor.
He has sent me to proclaim liberty to the captives and recovering of sight to the blind,
	To set at liberty those who are oppressed,
19	to proclaim the year of the Lord’s favor.”
Jesus fulfilled this Scripture freeing those who believe in Him from slavery to sin and Satan. Jesus triumphed over sin and Satan by dying on the cross as it says in Colossians 2:13-15:
13 And you, who were dead in your trespasses and the uncircumcision of your flesh, God made alive together with him, having forgiven us all our trespasses, 14 by canceling the record of debt that stood against us with its legal demands. This he set aside, nailing it to the cross. 15 He disarmed the rulers and authorities and put them to open shame, by triumphing over them in him. 
With Christ we are freemen! We have the power to not sin anymore, freedom to not sin by being new creations in Christ.
So what is sin? Sin means “amartia” in Greek and it means “missing the mark”. It is like shooting an arrow at a target and missing it. In James 4:17 it says,
17 So whoever knows the right thing to do and fails to do it, for him it is sin.
Also in Romans 2:14-15 it says,
14 For when Gentiles, who do not have the law, by nature do what the law requires, they are a law to themselves, even though they do not have the law. 15 They show that the work of the law is written on their hearts, while their conscience also bears witness, and their conflicting thoughts accuse or even excuse them 16 on that day when, according to my gospel, God judges the secrets of men by Christ Jesus.
So we are all guilty of sin as it says in Romans 3:23:
23 for all have sinned and fall short of the glory of God, 24 and are justified by his grace as a gift, through the redemption that is in Christ Jesus, 25 whom God put forward as a propitiation by his blood, to be received by faith. This was to show God’s righteousness, because in his divine forbearance he had passed over former sins. 
With Christ we are redeemed from our transgressions making us accounted righteous before God. We have been purchased by Christ’s own blood. In 1 Corinthians 6:19-20 it says,
19 Or do you not know that your body is a temple of the Holy Spirit within you, whom you have from God? You are not your own, 20 for you were bought with a price. So glorify God in your body. 
In Romans 6:22-23 it says
 22 But now that you have been set free from sin and have become slaves of God, the fruit you get leads to sanctification and its end, eternal life. 23 For the wages of sin is death, but the free gift of God is eternal life in Christ Jesus our Lord.
If you have accepted Jesus into your heart as your Lord and savior, you are a new creation set free from the bondage of sin and are no longer slaves to sin, but slaves to righteousness, bearing fruit leading to sanctification and eternal life. Being new creations in Christ, fight the good fight of faith! Keep in step with the Spirit as it says in Galatians 5:16-24:
16 But I say, walk by the Spirit, and you will not gratify the desires of the flesh. 17 For the desires of the flesh are against the Spirit, and the desires of the Spirit are against the flesh, for these are opposed to each other, to keep you from doing the things you want to do. 18 But if you are led by the Spirit, you are not under the law. 19 Now the works of the flesh are evident: sexual immorality, impurity, sensuality, 20 idiolatry, sorcery, enmity, strife, jealousy, fits of anger, rivalries, dissensions, divisions, 21 envy, drunkenness, orgies, and things like these. I warn you, as I warned you before, that those who do such things will not inherit the kingdom of God. 22 But the fruit of the Spirit is love, joy, peace, patience, kindness, goodness, faithfulness, 23 gentleness, self-control; against such things there is no law. 24 And those who belong to Christ Jesus have crucified the flesh with its passions and desires.
Be free in Jesus Christ and His power to set you free from slavery to sin. Walk in step with the Holy Spirit and be living sacrifices. In Romans 12:1-2 it says,
1 I appeal to you therefore, brothers, by the mercies of God, to present your bodies as a living sacrifice, holy and acceptable to God, which is your spiritual worship. 2 Do not be conformed to this world, but be transformed b the renewal of your mind, that by testing you may discern what is the will of God, what is good and acceptable and perfect.
	Jesus saved you from your sins by dying on the cross for you and rising again on the third day ascending to the right hand of God the Father Almighty from whence He will judge the living and the dead. I encourage you to live your lives as a living sacrifice for Jesus who paid the price for you, freeing you from slavery to sin and calling you free sons and daughters of God. Be ready to give your report to God on the day when He comes back to judge the world. God loves you. 
