Victory in Christ
Romans 16:17-20
Final Instructions and Greetings
	17I appeal to you, brothers, to watch out for those who cause divisions and create obstacles contrary to the doctrine that you have been taught; avoid them. 18For such persons do not serve our Lord Christ, but their own appetites, and by smooth talk and flattery they deceive the hearts of the naïve. 19For your obedience is known to all, so that I rejoice over you, but I want you to be wise as to what is good and innocent as to what is evil. 20The God of peace will soon crush Satan under your feet. The grace of our Lord Jesus Christ be with you.

In this ending of the book of Romans, apostle Paul tells us to watch out for those who cause divisions and obstacles contrary to the things taught in the Bible and to avoid them. Let us put on the whole armor of God when in these situations. In Ephesians 6:10-18 says,
10Finally, be strong in the Lord and in the strength of his might. 11Put on the whole armor of God, that you may be able to stand against the schemes of the devil. 12For we do not wrestle against flesh and blood, but against the rulers, against the authorities, against the cosmic powers over this present darkness, against the spiritual forces of evil in the heavenly places. 13Therefore take up the whole armor of God that you may be able to withstand in the evil day, and having done all, to stand firm. 14Stand therefore, having fastened on the belt of truth, and having put on the breastplate of righteousness, 15and, as shoes for your feet, having put on the readiness given by the gospel of peace. 16In all circumstances take up the shield of faith, with which you can extinguish all the flaming darts of the evil one; 17and take the helmet of salvation, and the sword of the Spirit, which is the word of God, 18praying at all times in the Spirit, with all prayer and supplication. To that end keep alert with all perseverance, making supplication for all the saints,

With our shield of faith we can block out those who cause divisions and obstacles to the teachings of the Bible. With faith we can overcome. In 1 John 5:4-5 it says,
4For everyone who has been born of God overcomes the world. And this is the victory that has overcome the world-our faith. 5Who is it that overcomes the world except the one who believes that Jesus is the Son of God?
So we see that with our faith, that is how we can overcome the world, by believing in what Jesus Christ, the Son of God, did for us by dying on the cross for our sins and being raised on the third day ascending to heaven and sitting at the right hand of God the Father Almighty who will come to judge the quick and the dead. In Colossians 1:13-20 it says,
13He has delivered us from the domain of darkness and transferred us to the kingdom of his beloved Son, 14in whom we have redemption, the forgiveness of sins.
The Preeminence of Christ
15He is the image of the invisible God, the firstborn of all creation. 16For by him all things were created, in heaven and on earth, visible and invisible, whether thrones or dominions or rulers or authorities-all things were created through him and for him. 17And he is before all things, and in him all things hold together. 18And he is the head of the body, the church. He is the beginning, the firstborn from the dead, that in everything he might be preeminent. 19For in him all the fullness of God was pleased to dwell, 20and through him to reconcile to himself all things, whether on earth or in heaven, making peace by the blood of his cross.

We serve the Almighty God. Let us grow in our faith and overcome the things in the world, being in the world but not of it. Let us walk in the Spirit and not in the flesh. Galatians 5:16-17 says, 
16But I say, walk by the Spirit, and you will not gratify the desires of the flesh. 17For the desires of the flesh are against the Spirit, and the desires of the Spirit are against the flesh, for these are opposed to each other to keep you from doing the things you want to do. 

Romans 16:19 says
19For your obedience is known to all, so that I rejoice over you, but I want you to be wise as to what is good and innocent as to what is evil.
So let us be innocent as doves and wise as serpents. In Matthew 10:16 Jesus says,
Persecution Will Come
16”Behold, I am sending you out as sheep in the midst of wolves, so be wise as serpents and innocent as doves.
Also Jesus says in Matthew 10:26-33
Have No Fear
26 “So have no fear of them, for nothing is covered that will not be revealed, or hidden that will not be known. 27What I tell you in the dark, say in the light, and what you hear whispered, proclaim on the housetops. 28And do not fear those who kill the body but cannot kill the soul. Rather fear him who can destroy both soul and body in hell. 29Are not two sparrows sold for a penny? And not one of them will fall to the ground apart from your Father. 30But even the hairs of your head are all numbered. 31Fear not, therefore; you are of more value that many sparrows. 32So everyone who acknowledges me before men, I also will acknowledge before my Father who is in heaven, 33but whoever denies me before men, I also will deny before my Father who is in heaven.

So let us be wise as serpents and innocent as doves, trusting in God to take care of us when troubles come.
Romans 16:20 says,
20The God of peace will soon crush Satan under your feet. The grace of our Lord Jesus Christ be with you.

We have the victory in Christ! In 2 Corinthians 4:7-10 it says,
7But we have this treasure in jars of clay, to show that the surpassing power belongs to God and not to us. 8We are afflicted in every way, but not crushed; perplexed, but not driven to despair; 9persecuted, but not forsaken; struck down, but not destroyed; 10always carrying in the body the death of Jesus, so that the life of Jesus may also be manifested in our bodies. 

Let us treasure God in our hearts, for He has won the victory over sin, Satan, and death! God loves you!!!!!!!!
