Walk By the Spirit
Galatians 5:16-25
	16 But I say, walk by the Spirit, and you will not gratify the desires of the flesh. 17 For the desires of the flesh are against the Spirit, and the desires of the Spirit are against the flesh, for these are opposed to each other, to keep you from doing the things you want to do. 18 But if you are led by the Spirit, you are not under the law. 19 Now the works of the flesh are evident: sexual immorality, impurity, sensuality, 20 idolatry, sorcery, enmity, strife, jealousy, fits of anger, rivalries, dissensions, divisions, 21 envy, drunkenness, orgies and things like these. I warn you, as I warned you before, that those who do such things will not inherit the kingdom of God. 22 But the fruit of the Spirit is love, joy, peace, patience, kindness, goodness, faithfulness, 23 gentleness, self-control; against such things there is no law. 24 And those who belong to Christ Jesus have crucified the flesh with its passions and desires.
	25 If we live by the Spirit, let us also keep in step with the Spirit. 25 Let us not become conceited, provoking one another, envying one another.

	In A Walk to Remember, there is a story of a young boy who causes trouble for hurting a classmate, who then meets a girl who totally changes his life, helping him to believe in God and eventually marries her who passes away. This is a walk in which the boy finds God and learns to walk with God. Let us walk in the Spirit, and not in the flesh that we may not gratify the desires of the flesh, crucifying the flesh with its passions and desires, and living holy lives for God as living sacrifices.

The Heidelberg Catechism (1563)
Q2:  How many things are necessary for you to know, that you in this comfort may live and die happily?
 A2:  Three things: First, the greatness of my sin and misery. Second, how I am redeemed from all my sins and misery. Third, how I am to be thankful to God for such redemption.
Our sins though they be many, are not greater than God’s mercy. What we have done in this life, walking in the flesh, following our passions and desires, where in verse 19 it says:
 
19 Now the works of the flesh are evident: sexual immorality, impurity, sensuality, 20 idolatry, sorcery, enmity, strife, jealousy, fits of anger, rivalries, dissensions, divisions, 21 envy, drunkenness, orgies and things like these. I warn you, as I warned you before, that those who do such things will not inherit the kingdom of God.
How deep does our sin go! Like a valley, how low does our sins go. What could one ever do about our depth of sin? Yet there is One who went deeper for our sake, down to the depths of hell for us. In 2 Cor 5:21 apostle Paul says, 
21 For our sake he made him to be sin who knew no sin, so that in him we might become the righteousness of God.
He knew no sin; He was absolutely perfect and holy yet He took our blame. He took our shame; He took our punishment and satisfied divine justice for us on the cross. In Isaiah 7:10-14 says:
	10 Again the LORD spoke to Ahaz: 11 Ask a sign of the LORD your God; let it be deep as Sheol or high as heaven. 12 But Ahaz said, “I will not ask, and I will not put the LORD to the test.” 13 And he said, “Hear then, O house of David! Is it too little for you to weary men, that you weary my God also? 14 Therefore the Lord himself will give you a sign. Behold, the virgin shall conceive and bear a son, and shall call his name Immanuel.
Jesus is the One who went as low as Sheol for us, where one goes after death, and ascended as high as heaven to the right hand of God the Father Almighty who will judge the living and the dead. Jesus is the One who went to the cross for us, bearing the guilt for all our sins on the cross, that He would take our place so that we would not suffer the wrath of God. The punishment that Jesus took, was supposed to be ours. We were under the wrath of God, that sin had to be punished, that all our wrong doing had to be accounted for-we were the ones who were supposed to be on the cross. 
	Titus 3:4-7 says,
4 But when the goodness and loving kindness of God our Savior appeared, 5 he saved us, not because of works done by us in righteousness, but according to his own mercy, by the washing of regeneration and renewal of the Holy Spirit, 6 whom he poured out on us richly through Jesus Christ our Savior, 7 so that being justified by his grace we might become heirs according to the hope of eternal life.
Our depth of sin, our walking in the flesh, has been atoned for and covered by the blood of the Lamb. Jesus went down to the depths of hell for us and saved us from condemnation and ascended to the highest of heaven at the right hand of God the Father Almighty. By his wounds you have been healed (1 Peter 2:24). Ephesians 2:8-10 says,
8 For by grace you have been saved through faith. And this is not your own doing; it is the gift of God, 9 not a result of works, so that no one may boast. 10 For we are his workmanship, created in Christ Jesus for good works, which God prepared beforehand, that we should walk in them.
By God’s grace we have been saved through faith, and not by works lest one should boast in himself. Having been saved by God’s grace through faith, let us now live our lives for Him out of thankfulness of what He has done. He saved us from eternal wrath and destruction, let us live our lives in gratitude for what He has done for us, saving us by the blood of the cross. Galatians 5:22 shows us how:
22 But the fruit of the Spirit is love, joy, peace, patience, kindness, goodness, faithfulness, 23 gentleness, self-control; against such things there is no law. 24 And those who belong to Christ Jesus have crucified the flesh with its passions and desires.

Walking in the Spirit is what we can do out of gratitude for what He has done for us. Living by walking in the Spirit helps us to bear beautiful fruit of the Spirit which is love, joy, peace, patience, kindness, goodness, faithfulness, gentleness, self-control. It is one fruit, having all 9 attributes, not 9 separate parts. Let us strive to produce this fruit by walking in the Spirit and not in the flesh, living by faith and not by sight. Out of faith, let us live for His glory being holy as living sacrifices. Having been saved from all our sins, where Jesus took on the wrath of God for us on the cross, let us strive to walk in the Spirit, with our hearts in gratitude for what He has done for us. He took all the punishment for you and helps us live in the right way so that we bear fruit for God. Let us follow Jesus, walking in His footsteps, following Him and carrying our crosses for His glory, denying ourselves and crucifying our passions and desires. Galatians 5:24-25 says,
24 And those who belong to Christ Jesus have crucified the flesh with its passions and desires.
	25 If we live by the Spirit, let us also keep in step with the Spirit. 25 Let us not become conceited, provoking one another, envying one another.
Let us crucify the desires of the flesh with its passions and desires, walking in the Spirit, letting the Spirit guide you by walking by faith and not by sight, always being in prayer and asking God to lead. Because of His great love for us, let us love one another; because of His mercy, let us be merciful to others. Matthew 7:12-14 says,
12 “So whatever you wish that others would do to you, do also to them, for this is the Law and the Prophets.
13 “Enter by the narrow gate. For the gate is wide and the way is easy that leads to destruction, and those who enter by it are many. 14 For the gate is narrow and the way is hard that leads to life, and those who find it are few.
I encourage you to spend time in God’s Word and learn from His Word, what Jesus wants to show you. God wants you to spend time with Him, let us take part in our daily bread in God’s Word that we may walk in the Spirit and not in the flesh. Let us always ask God for mercy. Romans 9:16 says,
16 So then it depends not on human will or exertion,[a] but on God, who has mercy.
Let us ask God for mercy, pleading for help to overcome the flesh that we may walk in the Holy Spirit. John Piper from 27 Servants of Sovereign Joy writes about Augustine:
At first Augustine resisted the triumph of grace as an enemy. But then, in a garden in Milan, Italy, when he was thirty-one, the power of grace through the truth of God’s word broke fifteen years of bondage to sexual lust and living with a concubine. His resistance was finally overcome by “sovereign joy,” the beautiful name he gave to God’s grace. “How sweet all at once it was for me to be rid of those fruitless joy which I had once feared to love…! You drove them from me, you who are the true, the sovereign joy. You drove them from me and took their place, you who are sweeter than all pleasure… O Lord my God, my Light, my Wealth, and my Salvation… Augustine knew that his liberty from lust and his power to live for Christ and his understanding of biblical truth hung on the validity of that prayer. He was painfully aware of the hopelessness of leaning on free will as a help against lust.

With Jesus, we can overcome the flesh by His mercy just as He did for saint Augustine, who gave up walking in the flesh and walked in the Spirit. Let us ask God for mercy to help us walk with Him and not depend on human will, but trust in the saving power of God. Jesus loves you!!!



