Wearing the Whole Armor of God
The Whole Armor of God
10 Finally, be strong in the Lord and in the strength of his might. 11 Put on the whole armor of God, that you may be able to stand against the schemes of the devil. 12 For we do not wrestle against flesh and blood, but against the rulers, against the authorities, against the cosmic powers over this present darkness, against the spiritual forces of evil in the heavenly places. 13 Therefore take up the whole armor of God, that you may be able to withstand in the evil day, and having done all, to stand firm. 14 Stand therefore, having fastened on the belt of truth, and having put on the breastplate of righteousness, 15 and, as shoes for your feet, having put on the readiness given by the gospel of peace. 16 In all circumstances take up the shield of faith, with which you can extinguish all the flaming darts of the evil one; 17 and take the helmet of salvation, and the sword of the Spirit, which is the word of God, 18 praying at all times in the Spirit, with all prayer and supplication. To that end, keep alert with all perseverance, making supplication for all the saints, 19 and also for me, that words may be given to me in opening my mouth boldly to proclaim the mystery of the gospel, 20 for which I am an ambassador in chains, that I may declare it boldly, as I ought to speak.

Imagine medieval times where people fought with swords and spears. If you lived in those times, what would you bring? Here Ephesians outlines what soldiers of Christ should wear when going to battle. In life, we will encounter various trials and problems, but let us make sure that we wear the right armor and equipment when we go through those trials so that we will be able to stand. 
Verse 14 says,
14 Stand therefore, having fastened on the belt of truth, and having put on the breastplate of righteousness,
We must be secured with the belt of truth in order to be able to fight the good fight of faith. In John 14:6 it says,
6 Jesus said to him, “I am the way, and the truth, and the life. No one comes to the Father except through me.
Jesus himself is truth, let us make sure that we know Jesus and trust in Him to make sure we are secure. 
The breastplate of righteousness is what we wear to protect us. We are righteous not by our own deeds, but of what Christ has done for us. In Romans 1:17 it says, 
17 For in it the righteousness of God is revealed from faith for faith,[a] as it is written, “The righteous shall live by faith.”[b]
Christ’s righteousness is imputed unto us by faith and with His righteousness as our breastplate, we will be safe as He is the most holy, wise, and powerful King of kings and Lord of lords. It is not what we have done, but what Christ has done.
Verse 15 says,
 15 and, as shoes for your feet, having put on the readiness given by the gospel of peace.
Our feet must be ready with firm shoes that help us be steady. When playing basketball, do you wear sandals or basketball shoes? When fighting the good fight of faith, let us wear the gospel of peace as our shoes to help us in our walk with Christ. The gospel of peace is what Christ has done for us, coming down from heaven as a man, perfectly keeping the Law and Prophets and bearing the sin of the world and being crucified for our sake, endured the pains of hell and rose again on the third day, ascending into heaven at the right hand of God the Father Almighty who will judge the quick and the dead. In three days, Jesus secured our salvation and eternal victory against sin, satan and death. Through the gospel, we have peace knowing that Jesus paid it all for us, all to Him we owe, sin had left a crimson stain, He washed it white as snow.
Verse 16 says, 
16 In all circumstances take up the shield of faith, with which you can extinguish all the flaming darts of the evil one;
With faith we can block the flaming darts of the evil one. With faith we can deflect the bad thoughts, the bad feelings, the negativity, and the lies. With faith we can protect ourselves and shield ourselves. Hebrews 11 says,
Now faith is the assurance of things hoped for, the conviction of things not seen.
With faith in what Jesus has done for us, we can do valiantly, trusting in our Maker who holds us in the palm of His hand, making ways for us, and helping us to trust in Him through pain, suffering and joy, having instilled hope within our hearts when we suffer to endure and build our character. Romans 5:3-5 says,
3 Not only that, but we rejoice in our sufferings, knowing that suffering produces endurance, 4 and endurance produces character, and character produces hope, 5 and hope does not put us to shame, because God's love has been poured into our hearts through the Holy Spirit who has been given to us.
With faith we can block the enemy and thwart his attack. 
Verse 17 says, 
17 and take the helmet of salvation, and the sword of the Spirit, which is the word of God,
Knowing that we are saved by grace through faith and not by works lest we should boast, let us take the helmet of salvation (Ephesians 2:8-9). We are saved in Christ Jesus by His blood poured out for the remission of sins. Our heads are the most important part to protect. Let us always remember that we are saved by the grace of God and that not one of us will be lost (John 6:39).
The sword of the Spirit is the word of God. Let us wield the sword of the Spirit by reciting Bible verses to encourage us when we are down and to rebuke any negativity. 2 Timothy 3:16 says,
16 All Scripture is God-breathed and is useful for teaching, rebuking, correcting and training in righteousness,
In Psalm 19:7 it says,
The law of the LORD is perfect, reviving the soul; the testimony of the LORD is sure, making wise the simple;
When Jesus faced the temptation in the desert, He fought by using Scripture. In Matthew 4:7, Jesus said:
7 Jesus said to him, “Again it is written, ‘You shall not put the Lord your God to the test.’”
And in Matthew 4:10, it says:
10 Then Jesus said to him, “Be gone, Satan! For it is written,
“‘You shall worship the Lord your God
    and him only shall you serve.’”
In 2 Timothy 1:7 it says,
7 for God gave us a spirit not of fear but of power and love and self-control.
And in Psalm 34:4 it says,
4 I sought the Lord, and he answered me;
    he delivered me from all my fears.
In Proverbs 3:5 it says,
5 Trust in the LORD with all your heart, and do not lean on your own understanding. In all your ways acknowledge him, and he will make straight your paths.
Proverbs 20:22 says,
Do not say, “I will repay evil”; wait for the LORD, and he will deliver you.
Let us wait on the Lord to deliver us when we go through trial and difficulties, reciting Scripture to help us in our trials. 
By equipping the whole armor of God, we can get through the trials and struggles of our lives. In John 16:33 Jesus says,
33 I have said these things to you, that in me you may have peace. In the world you will have tribulation. But take heart; I have overcome the world.”
Let us wear the whole armor of God when we face trials and always take heart because Jesus has overcome the world. With the whole armor of God we will do valiantly. Jesus loves you!!!

